








                          The Camp Fire Girls'
                            Larks and Pranks


                                   OR
                       The House of the Open Door
                          By HILDEGARD G. FREY

                               AUTHOR OF
                       The Camp Fire Girls Series

                           A. L. BURT COMPANY
                     Publishers           New York




                                  THE
                         Camp Fire Girls Series

          A Series of Stories for Camp Fire Girls Endorsed by
           the Officials of the Camp Fire Girls Organization


                          By HILDEGARD G. FREY


  The Camp Fire Girls in the Maine Woods
      or, The Winnebago's Go Camping

  The Camp Fire Girls at School
      or, The Wohelo Weavers

  The Camp Fire Girls at Onoway House
      or, The Magic Garden

  The Camp Fire Girls Go Motoring
      or, Along the Road That Leads the Way

  The Camp Fire Girls' Larks and Pranks
      or, The House of the Open Door

  The Camp Fire Girls on Ellen's Isle
      or, the Trail of the Seven Cedars

  The Camp Fire Girls on the Open Road
      or, Glorify Work

  The Camp Fire Girls Do Their Bit
      or, Over The Top With the Winnebago's

  The Camp Fire Girls Solve a Mystery
      or, The Christmas Adventures at Carver House

  The Camp Fire Girls at Camp Keewaydin
      or, Down Paddles


                            Copyright, 1917
                         By A. L. Burt Company


                 THE CAMP FIRE GIRLS' LARKS AND PRANKS




                          THE CAMP FIRE GIRLS'
                            LARKS AND PRANKS




                               CHAPTER I
                       THE HOUSE OF THE OPEN DOOR


It was the crisp chill of an early October evening; in the still air the
dead leaves came rustling down with a soft sound like whispers, while the
crickets chirped a cheery welcome from the waiting earth. Over the
treetops a big yellow hunter's moon was rising; its comical face grinning
good-naturedly. It looked down on the dark outlines of a large barn
standing in the shadow of a tall tree and the grin widened perceptibly.
Evidently something was happening on earth.

A dark form stole softly up the long drive leading to the barn and paused
before the door. Through the silence there rose the whistling wail of the
whippoorwill, repeated three times, and ending abruptly in the squall of
a catbird. From within the blackness of the barn came an echo of the
whippoorwill's call, followed by a much more cheerful note--the carol of
the bluebird. Then a clear voice called from inside, "Who goes there?"

"A friend," came the reply.

"Stand and give the countersign," commanded the voice inside.

"Other Council Fires were here before," responded the newcomer.

"Advance and give the Inner Password," said the invisible sentinel.

The figure passed through the dark entrance and came to a halt just
inside, crying, "Kolah Olowan!"

"Mount!" commanded the voice above, and the stranger lost no time in
obeying the invitation. Scrambling up the ladder fastened to the wall
which did duty as a staircase, she thrust aside the curtain at the top
and stepped out into the lighted upper chamber.

Anyone seeing that dark and deserted looking building from the outside
would never guess how bright and cheerful was that upper room within. A
wood fire roared in a cobblestone fireplace, its gleam lighting up walls
hung with leather skins and gay Indian blankets and festooned with sprays
of bittersweet. Several more Indian blankets were spread out on the floor
in lieu of rugs, while from the rafters were suspended woven baskets and
pieces of pottery. Ranged around the sides of the chamber, where the
sloping roof met the floor, were four beds, all different, and only one
indicating that the dwellers in that secret lodge were civilized persons.
The first was a neat cot bed with blankets tucked in smoothly all around,
and a dust cover folded up at the foot; the second was an "Indian bed"
made of pine branches, dried ferns and sweet grasses, piled several feet
high and ingeniously confined by woven reeds and pliant twigs. The scent
of the sweet grasses, mingled with the aromatic odor of the pine, filled
the room with a dreamy fragrance that seemed like a charm to lure down
the Sleep Manitou. The third was a pile of bearskins and the fourth was
another kind of Indian bed, made of smooth round willow rods tied
together with ropes and laid across two poles fastened into the wall.

No windows were visible, as these had been covered with skins. Except for
the camp bed, the wide hearthstone and one other detail it might have
been the lodge of some Indian Chief of olden time. That other detail was
a green felt pennant stretched across the chimney above the stone shelf
of the fireplace, bearing in clean-cut English letters the word
WINNEBAGO. Most of our readers have probably guessed the truth before
this--the Indian lodge we have been describing is the meeting place of
the Winnebago Camp Fire Girls and the solitary visitor who uttered the
plaintive cry of the whippoorwill with its grotesque ending in a cat call
is none other than our old friend, Sahwah the Sunfish.

"O Nyoda, such larks!" cried Sahwah, skipping across the room and
bestowing a hasty embrace on the sentinel guarding the fire, whom the
reader has doubtless suspected of being Miss Kent, the Guardian of the
Winnebago group.

Nyoda laughingly shook herself free and smoothed out the Ceremonial dress
she held in her hand, which had become sadly crumpled during the process
of Sahwah's bear hug. "What mischief are you into this time?" she asked
fondly, smiling down into Sahwah's dancing eyes.

Sahwah went into a gale of giggles before she could explain. "You know
Gladys was going to drive all of us girls down in the Glow-worm
to-night," she said, controlling her laughter with an effort, "and she
telephoned Hinpoha while I was there to dinner that she was over at Mrs.
Varden's, the dressmaker's, having a fit, and the Glow-worm was standing
out in front of the house, so we should gather up the other girls and get
into the car and wait for her to come out, to save her the time of going
around after the girls, for her fit threatened to be a lengthy one. So
Hinpoha started out after Medmangi and Nakwisi and I went back home after
these apples, which I'd forgotten to take along to Hinpoha's. When I got
to the corner of the street along came Gladys in the Glow-worm and said
she had an errand to do for her mother in a hurry and we had better come
straight out here without her and she would come later. I hurried over to
Mrs. Varden's house to tell the girls, but when I got nearly there I saw
a black car standing out in front and Hinpoha and Nakwisi and Medmangi
sitting in it as cool as cucumbers, thinking they were in the Glow-worm.
I recognized the car as belonging to that horribly bashful son of Mrs.
Varden's, and I couldn't resist the temptation to let the girls sit in it
until he came out. So I stole back up the street, keeping in the shadow
of the trees so the girls wouldn't see me, and came out here. Oh, won't
there be a situation though, when 'Dolly' Varden comes out and finds his
nice bachelor car full of bold, bad girls!"

The picture was too much for Sahwah, and she rolled on the bed shrieking
with laughter, in which Nyoda joined heartily. "I wonder how long it will
be before they come," said Sahwah, rising from the bed and wiping her
eyes. "What shall we do to pass away the time?"

"If I were you," advised Nyoda, "I would spend it searching a nice safe
retreat to which you can fly when they come and find out you didn't tell
them."

Hardly had she spoken the words when there floated up from below the
familiar cry of the whippoorwill, followed successively by the long,
eerie laugh of the loon, the blithe whistle of the quail and the song of
the robin. "There they are!" exclaimed Sahwah in mock terror. "Where
shall I hide? Oh, I have it, I'll get inside of that pile of bearskins
and listen while they tell their tale of woe to you and then I'll hop out
and laugh at them." Quick as a flash she jumped into the bearskin bed and
pulled the skins over her so that she was entirely concealed.

With a great deal of chattering and giggling the three arrivals were
mounting the ladder. "Keep on going, Hinpoha!" exclaimed Nakwisi, "you're
stepping on my hand."

"Keep on going yourself," retorted Hinpoha, "you haven't a pie in your
hand." Just at that moment her foot slipped and she clutched wildly at
the ladder for support.

"There goes the pie!" shrieked someone, as it described a circle in the
air and landed with a thud. Hinpoha wrung her hands in grief, for her
mouth was already watering for that crisp pastry.

Medmangi walked over to view the remains. "It isn't hurt a mite," she
said calmly, picking it up and dusting it off. "Fortunately it landed
right side up in the tin."

"O Nyoda," cried Hinpoha, beaming once more now that the feast of pie was
assured, "we had the most fun getting here! Gladys told us the Glow-worm
was standing out in front of the Varden's house and we should get in and
wait for her, and we saw a car and got in. Pretty soon out came young Mr.
Varden, got into the front seat without looking to the right or left and
drove off. We thought of course he was driving Gladys' car away and we
all three shrieked at him at once. He pretty nearly dropped dead when he
heard us, and stopped the car so suddenly we all flew out of the seat.
But he was perfectly grand about it when we found out our mistake. He
told us Gladys had gone home fifteen minutes before, but he would be
perfectly delighted to drive us where we wanted to go. And so he brought
us out," she finished with a dramatic flourish, and sat down heavily on
top of the bearskin bed where Sahwah lay hidden. Immediately there was an
upheaval and a grotesque animal sprang from the bed, an animal which had
the skin of a bear and two red stockinged legs which capered wildly about
while their owner shrieked piercingly, "She sat on my breathing apparatus
and I won't be able to talk for a week!"

"You _are_ talking, you goose," said Hinpoha, calmly seating herself
again after poking the bed to see if it were further inhabited.

"You missed it, Sahwah, by going home," she continued. "Too bad you
weren't along to share the fun."

Sahwah's expression was funny to behold when she learned how the joke had
turned out, for it was not on the girls after all, but on herself, for
she had walked all the way to the lodge by herself. She looked rather
silly as she caught Nyoda's eye, but while Nyoda twinkled mischievously
at her Sahwah knew that she would never give her away. But of course when
Gladys arrived a few minutes later and heard the story, Sahwah's part in
it came out and she had to stand the gibes of the others because her joke
had turned round on herself, until Nyoda called the beginning of the
Ceremonial and peace was restored.

One name has been dropped from the Count Book of the Winnebagos since
last we heard the roll called, and to another there is no reply, although
it is always called. Early in the fall Chapa the Chipmunk moved to a
distant city, and so for the first time the close circle of the
Winnebagos was broken. Then shortly afterward Migwan went away to college
and her departure caused a fresh bereavement. Though Migwan had been of
such a very quiet nature, her influence had been widely felt, and the
girls missed her more and more as the days went on. Hinpoha, especially,
was almost inconsolable, for she and Migwan had always stood a little
closer together than the rest of the girls. This was the first Ceremonial
Meeting without the two and it seemed very strange indeed to omit Chapa's
name from the roll, and when Migwan's name was called and was followed by
silence, Hinpoha sniffed audibly and wiped her eyes.

"Sister, this is a very solemn occasion," said Sahwah the irrepressible,
in such a forced tone of sorrow that it was impossible not to laugh at
her.

"That's right," said Nyoda. "It won't do for us to pull long faces. We
have vowed to 'be happy' you know. Think how much worse off Chapa is
alone in a strange city. Come, be cheerful and tell what kind deeds you
have seen done today. You begin, Sahwah."

Sahwah took hold of her toes with her hands and tilted back and forth on
the floor as she spoke. "Sally Jones did me a great service yesterday in
composition class. You know Sally Jones--the one they call the
Blunderbuss. Well, you know what a pig I am when it comes to writing
composition. I never wrote one yet that I didn't get a blot on. Last week
when I handed mine in Miss Snively said that if there was a blot on my
paper this week she would mark me zero for the month. So yesterday when
we had to write one in class I took the utmost care and got it all done
spotlessly and was just signing my name when Anna Green behind me tried
to pick a thread off my collar and laid her fishy cold hand against my
neck. I jumped and wriggled and the result was a beautiful blot on my
composition. There wasn't time to copy it over because it was almost the
end of the hour, so I resigned myself to a nice fat cipher on my report
card this month. Then Miss Snively sent Sally around to collect the
papers and when she came to my desk she leaned across it in such an
awkward way that she upset my inkwell all over my composition and my one
small blot was completely hidden by the deluge. Miss Snively graciously
requested me to do it over in rest hour, which I did, and handed it in in
perfect shape. Upsetting that inkwell was the kindest thing anybody ever
did for me."

There was a moment of laughter at Sahwah's tale of kindness and then
quiet fell on the group again. "Tell us a story, Nyoda," begged Hinpoha,
breaking the silence, "we're getting low in our minds again."

"Yes, do," begged the others.

Nyoda sat silent a moment staring thoughtfully into the fire. Her hands
were clasped around her knees and the light shone on the diamond ring
which now encircled the fourth finger of her left hand--the only thing
which made the girls realize that their amazing adventures of the first
week in September had been a reality and not a dream.

"In a village in eastern Hungary," began Nyoda, "there lived a girl about
your age. Her father was a very wealthy man, and lived on a great estate.
Veronica--that was the girl's name--was the only child, and had
everything that her heart desired. The thing she loved to do the best was
ride horse-back and she had a beautiful horse for her very own. She
showed great talent on the violin and had the best masters. Veronica grew
to be seventeen as happy as a girl could be, with an indulgent father and
a beautiful, sweet mother. Then a dreadful thing happened. War was
declared in the country and the village where they lived was taken by the
enemy. Her father was killed, their home was burned and her mother died.
Veronica, with the rest of the people in the village, ran away toward the
mountains when the village burned. But Veronica became separated from her
friends and fell, and could not get up again, for her leg was broken. She
lay there a long time, and gave herself up for lost, when she heard a
whinny beside her and there was her pet horse, who had been following her
all the way. She managed to swing herself up on his back and he galloped
away to the safety of the mountains. They found their way across the
border into another country where some kind people took care of the
orphan girl. The faithful horse fell after he had brought her to safety
and hurt himself so badly that he had to be shot. The people who took
care of Veronica sent her across the ocean to her aunt and uncle. So, sad
and lonesome, she came to this country to be an American."

Here Nyoda paused for breath, and Hinpoha burst out quickly, "Oh, how I
wish this had happened in our time and that poor lonely girl had come to
this city and we had met her and made her happy. Wouldn't we be kind to
her, though, if we had a chance?"

Nyoda proceeded quietly. "All this _has_ happened in your time, and this
lonesome girl _has_ come to our city, and you are going to have a chance
to be kind to her often."

"Nyoda!" shrieked all the girls at once. "You mean she lives in our city,
and you actually know her?" "Where does she live?" "When will we see
her?" "What is her whole name?" "How old did you say she was?"

"Have mercy!" exclaimed Nyoda, putting her hands over her ears. "I can
only answer ten questions at once. Veronica's uncle is Mr. Lehar, the
conductor of the Temple Theatre orchestra. I live next door to them, you
know, and am well acquainted with Mrs. Lehar. She told me about Veronica
some time ago and last week she went to New York to get her. I
immediately asked her to allow her niece to join the Winnebago group, if
you girls were willing to take her, that she might not be lonely here.
Will you take her in, girls?"

"We certainly will!" cried Gladys and Hinpoha in a breath, and Sahwah
sprang to her feet exclaiming vehemently, "Well, I guess so!"

"When is she coming?" they wanted to know next.

"I'll bring her to the next meeting," promised Nyoda, "and I want you
girls to--"

What it was she wanted them to do they never found out, for just at that
minute there was a terrific thump on the floor below followed by the
hurried clatter of heavy footsteps, then the scraping of feet on the
ladder, a great waving and billowing of the curtain at the top and then
it was wrenched aside, and into the Council Chamber there burst the
fattest boy they had ever seen. His great cheeks hung down over his
collar; his eyes were nearly buried. His face was purple from violent
exertion and he sat limply against the bearskin bed, panting heavily. The
girls stared open-mouthed at the intruder. Before they had recovered
sufficiently from their astonishment to utter a single word, the barn
below was filled with the noise of many footsteps and the shouting of
many voices, and the next minute the sacred Council Chamber of the
Winnebagos was filled to overflowing with boys.

At the sight of the lighted chamber and the girls in Indian costumes the
intruders stopped and stared in speechless surprise. Then with one accord
seven hats were snatched from as many heads and seven voices exclaimed as
one, "Beg pardon, we didn't know anyone was here."

It was so funny to hear them all saying the same thing at once that the
Winnebagos could not help laughing aloud. The confusion of the boys was
so painful that the girls actually felt sorry for them.

"There are only _seven_ of you," said Sahwah, as usual breaking the
silence first. "I thought at first there were _hundreds_."

Here one of the boys found his voice to speak. He was a tall boy with
curly brown hair and nice eyes, and his face was suffused with blushes of
embarrassment. "Sorry to disturb you girls," he said soberly, but with a
twinkle in his eye. "We were chasing _him_"--and he pointed to the fat
boy still puffing away for dear life on the floor--"and we couldn't see
any light from the outside and we didn't know anybody was up here and
when Slim ran in we just followed him. We'll go right away again, and let
you go on with your meeting."

Nyoda looked from one face to the other--nice refined boys they were, she
decided, and it would do no hurt to show them courtesy. "You needn't be
in such a great hurry to go," she said cordially. "You may at least stay
until you have recovered your breath." And she looked quizzically at the
fat boy leaning against the bearskins who did not seem ever to be going
to breathe again.

He tried to show his appreciation of her hospitality by getting up and
making a bow, which threw him into such an advanced stage of
breathlessness that he sank down again directly and had to be fanned.
This caused another general laugh and the boys and girls rubbed elbows so
closely trying to revive him that all feeling of embarrassment vanished
and it suddenly seemed as if they were old friends, in spite of the fact
that none of them knew the others' names. Nyoda came to herself with a
start.

"Excuse us, boys," she said, "for not introducing ourselves. I am Miss
Kent, Guardian of the Winnebago Camp Fire Girls, and these are the
Winnebagos," and she named them in order. "We were having a rather
doleful time when you arrived. You broke up the spell of gloom and we are
deeply grateful."

The tall boy spoke again, this time smiling broadly. "We're the ones who
ought to apologize for not introducing ourselves," he said in a pleasant
voice, "since we have caused so much disturbance. We're the Sandwich
Club," he continued, including all the boys in a sweeping gesture of his
hand. "We go to Carnegie Mechanic. That's Slim over there," he said,
pointing to the fat one, while all the girls laughed. "His real name's
Lewis Carlton, but it's so long since anyone has called him that that
he's forgotten what it is himself. We chase him all over the country to
reduce him, but sometimes he gives us the slip and hides and it takes us
so long to find him that in the meantime he gains more than he lost while
we were chasing him."

The girls fairly shouted at this and Slim doubled up a cushion-like fist
and declared in a choking voice that if the fellows didn't leave him in
peace he'd sit down on them some day and that would be the end of them.
The tall boy who was doing the introducing smiled sweetly at Slim and
went on with the introductions.

"This one," he said, indicating an extremely thin, hungry-looking,
gaunt-featured lad with sombre brown eyes and a grave mouth, "is Bill
Pitt. 'Bottomless Pitt,' we call him, because it's impossible to fill him
up. You girls have heard of the Sheep Eaters?" he asked suddenly, looking
from one to the other.

"Yes," chorused the Winnebagos, not wishing to appear ignorant, but not
sure whether the Sheep Eaters were beasts of prey or persons overfond of
mutton.

"Well," continued the spokesman, pointing to the "Bottomless Pitt," "he's
a Pie Eater, he is. He eats 'em whole."

Hinpoha's glance strayed nervously to the shelf where the apple pie stood
awaiting the end of the Ceremonial Meeting. The tall boy's eyes followed
here and his teeth showed in a wide smile, as he seemed to read her
thoughts. Hinpoha blushed fiery red and dropped her eyes. But he looked
away again immediately and did not increase her embarrassment.

"This," he said, drawing forward a spidery little fellow with red hair
and freckles all over his face, "is Munson K. McKee, called for short,
Monkey, and those," indicating the other three, "are Dan Porter, Peter
Jenkins and Harry Raymond. We seven boys have always gone together, so we
decided to form a club, and we all like sandwiches so well that we named
ourselves the Sandwich Club. There, now you know all about us."

"But you haven't told us _your_ name," said the Winnebagos, who were
beginning to like the spokesman very much, and were anxiously waiting to
hear him introduce himself.

"Haven't I?" he asked. "That's right, I haven't. My name," he said
solemnly, but with that suggestion of a twinkle in his eye again, "is
Cicero St. John--and the fellows _don't_ call me Cissy for short." Here
the corners of his mouth twitched as at some humorous memory.

"You bet they don't call him Cissy!" put in the Bottomless Pitt.

Hinpoha's eyes met Gladys' in comical dismay. How could anyone in their
right senses name a boy--an American boy--Cicero! The St. John part
sounded very fine, but that awful Cicero!

"How do you keep them from calling you--Cissy?" ventured Sahwah.

"He licked the tar out of them!" spoke up the Monkey. "And he dumped one
fellow overboard out in the lake when he tried it. Everybody calls him
'Cap' now, because he's captain of the football team."

"Indeed," murmured the Winnebagos, looking at Cicero St. John with fresh
interest and great respect, for all the world loves a football player.

And then the boys wanted to know all about the Winnebagos, and thought
their symbolic names and "queer duds" even funnier than the girls had
considered theirs. But they all voiced their unqualified approval of the
Camp Fire Girls when they heard that the Ceremonial Meeting was to be
topped off with a feast of apple pie, doughnuts and cider, and did not
need to be asked more than once to stay, and share the feast.

"Say, this is a peach of a meeting place," said the Captain with his
mouth full. "How did you happen to get it, and whoever thought of putting
a fireplace upstairs in a barn?"

"We got it as the result of a sort of wager," explained Hinpoha. "Gladys'
father promised that if we could go on an automobile trip all by
ourselves without once telegraphing to him for aid he would build us a
Lodge to hold our meetings in, and we did and so he did."

"'So _they_ did, and _he_ did, and the bears did,'" quoted Nyoda
teasingly.

Hinpoha laughed and went on. "He owned this empty barn out here in the
field and he turned it over to us. But we just had to have a fireplace or
it wouldn't have been a regular Camp Fire Lodge, so he built this
splendid chimney. We have named the Lodge 'The House of the Open Door,'
or the 'Open Door Lodge,' to signify hospitality. Mr. Evans wanted to
build a fine stairway, too, but we wouldn't have it. It's lots more fun
to climb the ladder."

"Why don't you use the ground floor?" asked Slim, who could never see the
sense of exerting one's self needlessly.

"It's much cosier up here," replied Hinpoha. "We have these adorable
peaks and gables to hang things on. Besides, we wanted to leave the big
floor downstairs clear for dancing."

"Dancing? Do you dance?" cried the boys, pricking up their ears.

"We surely do," replied the girls. "Would you like to come down and try?"

Down the ladder they went in a hurry, Slim being pushed from above and
pulled from below, and landing on the floor in his usual breathless
state. A few lanterns were hung around the walls and the big door opened
wide to let in the bright rays of the full moon and the place was nearly
as light as day. Nyoda played her banjo and the twelve pairs of feet
shuffled merrily to the lively strains. As there were only five girls,
Slim and Peter Jenkins were left without partners and consoled themselves
by dancing together. Peter came just to Slim's shoulder and weighed
ninety-five pounds against Slim's two hundred and thirty, and the result
was so ludicrous that the rest could hardly dance for laughing. It was
like a monkey dancing with an elephant. Slim took mincing little steps
and looked down at his partner with a simpering, languishing expression,
while Peter strained heroically to encircle his fair one's waist with his
arm. Rocking back and forth in exaggerated rhythm, Slim tripped over a
board and fell with a great crash, pinning his gallant partner under him.
The rest flew to the rescue and propped Peter up against the wall,
fanning him vigorously.

"He'll recover," pronounced the Captain, after a thorough going over of
his bones, "but he'll never be the same again."

"All is over between us," said Slim, wringing his hands in mock despair.
"Miss Kent, won't _you_ dance with me?"

"It's time we were going home," said Nyoda calmly. "Come, girls."

"Go home!" echoed the Captain. "I thought you lived here."

"But how about all the beds upstairs?" asked the Captain.

"Oh," explained Nyoda, "we all constructed different kinds of beds to win
honors, and left them there in case we might want to stay some time."

"It's a pretty fine clubhouse, I'll say," remarked the Bottomless Pitt in
a tone of envy. "I wish we Sandwiches had one like it. We have no place
to call our own."

Hinpoha's thoughts leaped to the Fire Song, the words of which hung
beside the fireplace up above:

  "_Whose house is bare and dark and cold,_
  _Whose house is cold,_
  _This is his own._"

She spoke impulsively. "Oh, Nyoda, couldn't we let them use the ground
floor to hold their meeting in?"

A cheer burst from the seven boys' lips. "Hooray! May we, Miss Kent?"

Nyoda was silent and looked at the boys with a troubled expression, and
her glance as it rested on Hinpoha held a reproof. There was an awkward
silence. Then the Captain spoke up.

"I understand what you mean, Miss Kent," he said simply and
straightforwardly. "You don't know anything about us and of course you
wouldn't want to share your club house with us on such short
acquaintance. We wouldn't think much of you if you did. It was all right
of course for you to ask us to stay and dance with the girls this one
evening when you were here with us, but that doesn't mean that you're
willing to adopt us. But we like you girls first rate, and want to know
you better if you will let us. You can go to any of the teachers at
Carnegie Mechanic and find out all you want to know about us. Pitt's
father is Math teacher there and my father is Dr. Cicero St. John. It was
simply great of you to offer to let us come here and hold our meetings,
and if you'll still keep the offer open after you have investigated us to
your satisfaction we'll be mighty grateful and will promise not to bother
you upstairs."

The boy's face was so open and manly that it was impossible not to
believe in him then and there. Nyoda smiled into his earnest face. "All
right, Captain," she said, "we'll agree to put you on probation, and if
you stand the test we'll consider the matter of sharing the Open Door
Lodge."

The Captain smiled back at her and held out his hand. "You're a peach and
I like you," he said emphatically, and the two were sworn friends from
that moment on.




                               CHAPTER II
                                VERONICA


At four o'clock one afternoon some few days later Hinpoha and Sahwah,
breathless from hurrying, ran up the steps of the house where Nyoda lived
and rang the bell. The other Winnebagos were already assembled when they
entered, and Nyoda was not there.

"Where's Nyoda?" demanded Sahwah.

"Sh, she's gone over to get--_her_," answered Gladys, smoothing out the
folds of her pretty new pleated dress with one hand and tucking in a
stray lock with the other.

"What did you say 'sh' for?" demanded Sahwah curiously. "There's no one
sleeping, is there?"

"I don't know why I said it," answered Gladys, rumpling up the hair she
had just tidied, "I'm so excited about meeting Veronica that I don't know
what I'm doing. I just can't sit still." And she jumped up from her chair
and began to pace nervously up and down the room.

"Doesn't it remind you of the time we stood on the dock at Loon Lake and
waited for Gladys to make her first appearance?" said Hinpoha to Sahwah.
"Don't you remember how we wondered what she would be like and you and
Migwah nearly fought over whose affinity she was going to be?"

"Did you really, girls?" said Gladys, pausing in her walk. "And was I as
nice as you hoped I'd be?"

Footsteps on the porch saved Hinpoha from having to reply and Gladys
hurried to her chair and seated herself properly. A moment later Nyoda
entered the room with a young girl beside her whom she led into the
center of the group.

"Girls," she said, with one hand on the stranger's shoulder, "this is our
new member, Veronica Lehar."

All eyes centered on the newcomer. She was a small, slender girl with
short curly black hair, olive complexion, bright red lips and a straight,
finely modeled nose. She wore a dark red velvet dress which suited her
complexion wonderfully, and fell in soft folds about her lithe form. She
was as straight as an arrow and as graceful as a deer. From the crown of
her finely poised head to her little fur-topped boots she was an
aristocrat. The simple Winnebagos were abashed before her. Never had they
met such a high-born little lady. There was an air about her which they
could never acquire if they lived a hundred years. They felt like
peasants in the presence of a queen. But they forgot her aristocratic air
when they looked into her eyes. Large and dark and velvety as a pansy,
but so sad it almost broke your heart to look into them. All the sympathy
which the girls had worked up for her since hearing her story came back
in a rush and they surrounded her with cordial greetings and expressions
of welcome. Veronica held her violin, which she had brought over with
her, under one arm while she shook hands politely with all the girls. She
answered all their pretty speeches in a friendly manner, but she never
once smiled, and her eyes had a look as if her thoughts were not there in
the room at all, but back in the far country across the ocean. Although
she had an accent she spoke a beautiful English, in fact, she used far
better language than the majority of American schoolgirls, and more than
once the girls felt embarrassed when they had forgotten themselves so far
as to utter a slang phrase.

Conversation soon languished, for Veronica did not seem inclined to talk,
so Nyoda started the girls singing camp songs to amuse her, and led the
talk around to the Winnebagos' doings which she was now to take part in.
Of course the new lodge was the main topic of conversation with the
Winnebagos and they waxed so enthusiastic over its splendors that
Veronica exclaimed with some show of warmth, "Oh, I must see it soon!"
Then she added, "Tell me what I must do to become a Camp Fire Girl like
yourselves."

"You must have a symbolic name," answered Gladys eagerly, anxious to be
the one to explain things to Veronica, "and a Ceremonial dress, and learn
the songs, and know the Camp Fire Girls' Desire, and the Winnebago
passwords and oh, lots of delightful things."

"What are they, the Winnebago passwords, and what are they for?" asked
Veronica.

"Well," answered Gladys, "you know what a password is, don't you? Well,
we have passwords to admit us into the Lodge on Ceremonial night. But
before I tell you about the passwords I must tell you about the signal
calls, for they come first in order. You see, the general signal of the
Winnebagos is the call of the whippoorwill, like this"--and she
illustrated her words with a clear call. "You repeat that three times and
at the end of it you must give your own individual bird call. We all have
different ones. Mine is the robin, like this. Nyoda's is the bluebird;
Hinpoha's the loon; Medmangi's is the owl; Nakwisi's the meadowlark and
Sahwah's the catbird."

"Whatever made you take such a hideous screech for your call, Sahwah?"
interrupted Hinpoha. "There are lots of nicer bird calls than that of the
catbird."

"I don't care, I wanted the catbird," returned Sahwah. "It suits my
individuality, as my dear friend, Miss Snively, would say. I am the 'cat
that walks by himself and all places are alike to me!'"

"Be a catbird as much as you like," said Gladys pacifically, "as long as
you don't eat us poor bird-birds. But to go back to the passwords. You
see, Nyoda is Guardian of the Fire, and she always goes up to the Lodge
room first on Ceremonial night. If any of us get there ahead of her we
have to stay out until she comes. Then we announce our coming by giving
the call of the whippoorwill and she knows one of the Winnebagos is
below; and she knows which one it is by the individual bird call. So she
calls out 'Who goes there?' and we answer 'A friend.' When she says,
'Stand and give the countersign,' we have to say, 'Other Council Fires
were here before.'"

"What does that mean, 'Other Council Fires were here before?'" asked
Veronica.

The girls looked at one another. "What does it mean?" asked Gladys.

"I don't know," said Sahwah.

"I don't know," said Hinpoha.

"You insisted on our having it, Sahwah," said Gladys. "Why did you choose
it if you didn't know what it meant?"

"Oh," explained Sahwah lightly, "I saw it written over the door of one of
the historical buildings at the Exposition, and it sounded as if it might
mean something grand, so I chose it. You girls were all delighted with
it, so that's proof it's a good catch-word."

"It is a good countersign," said Nyoda, "although I confess I can't tell
wherein the charm lies."

"Well, to proceed," said Gladys, "after you have given the countersign
you will be asked to give the Inner Pass Word, and then you must say
'Kolah Olowan.' That means 'Song Friend.' You know we pride ourselves on
being a singing group, that is, we have a great many songs that we sing
together, and I think our dearest friends are those we sing with. So we
Winnebagos call each other 'Song Friends,' or friends bound together by
the power of our familiar songs. That's why we chose bird notes for our
personal symbols. The birds are the original Song Friends. What bird are
you going to choose for your own, Veronica?"

Veronica's sad eyes stared thoughtfully into the fire for a moment. Then
they filled with a smouldering light. "I shall be the gull that flies
over the sea," she said in a low voice, "because some day I am going to
fly over the sea to my dear home."

"We were all nearly ready to cry when she said that," wrote Gladys to
Migwan, "only Nyoda popped up then and asked Hinpoha and Sahwah to sing
'The Owl and the Pussycat,' and they climbed on the sofa for the
beautiful pea-green boat--you know what a beautiful pea-green it is--and
for a small guitar Nyoda gave Sahwah a little pasteboard fiddle that
produced three notes when you turned a crank, and the whole thing was so
ridiculous that we laughed until our sides ached."

After the Owl and the Pussycat had sung themselves over the back of the
sofa and down on the floor with a thump Nyoda made tea in her new
electric teapot and passed platefuls of thin sandwiches, and Sahwah upset
her cup into her lap demonstrating how perfectly she could balance it on
her knee and had to stand before the fire to dry her skirt.

"You brought your violin along; won't you play for us?" asked Nyoda of
Veronica when the excitement over Sahwah's mishap had subsided.

In graceful compliance with Nyoda's request, and without waiting to be
urged, Veronica took her violin from its case, settled it under her chin
with a movement that was a caress, and drew the bow across the strings.
With the first note teacups and sandwiches were forgotten and the girls
sat in a spellbound circle, while Sahwah stopped mopping her skirt with
her handkerchief and the wet spot dried and scorched unheeded. Such a
witching melody as rose from the strings--now light as a fairy dancing on
a bubble, now hurrying like the brook over its pebbles, now sighing like
the wind in a rose tree, now slow and stately like the curtseying of a
grande dame in the movements of a court dance. When it came to an end the
girls sat breathless, too dazed to applaud.

"Play some more!" begged Gladys in a whisper. It seemed like a
desecration to talk.

Veronica played on, now fast, now slow, now sad and now gay, and finally
whirled into a wild gypsy dance that set the blood tingling in her
hearers' veins as the swift measures followed on each other's heels,
until they could see in their mind's eye the leaping figures of the
dancers in their bright costumes. Faster, faster, flashed the bow on the
magic strings and Veronica's whole soul was in her eyes as she played the
familiar strains of her homeland. Her lips parted in a flashing smile and
one foot tapped the carpet in time to the music.

Suddenly a string snapped with a discordant crash. Veronica came to
herself with a start. The light left her eyes and she stood staring into
the fire with a sad, bitter expression.




                              CHAPTER III
                           AN UNINVITED GUEST


Rain fell in torrents on the roof of the hospitable House of the Open
Door, and the wind howled dismally around its friendly gables. Inside the
"lofty loft" of the Winnebagos the fire shone brightly on the hearth and
the rafters rang with merriment. Sahwah had a new hobby, and was riding
it to death. This was a Hawaiian guitar, known as a "ukelele," from which
she was producing a series of hair-raising noises.

"Sounds like a cat in its last agony," remarked Hinpoha.

"Well, that just suits me," replied Sahwah, undisturbed, drawing a long
shivering wail from the strings. "I am the cat that walks by himself----"

"And all racket is alike to you," finished Hinpoha. "Who's getting supper
tonight, Nyoda? I'm nearly starving."

"I appointed Gladys and Veronica," answered Nyoda. "The combination of
blonde and brunette ought to produce something pretty good."

Gladys promptly laid down the bit of leather in which she was cutting a
pattern and moved toward the "kitchen end" of the Lodge. "Come on,
Veronica," she said, "let's make a carload of scones for these hungry
wolves."

Veronica looked up at her without moving. On her face was an expression
of surprise; almost amazement. "What, _I_ cook?" she asked scornfully.
"That is for servants to do!"

Then it was the Winnebagos' turn to look amazed. Sahwah dropped her
instrument on the floor with a clatter, and the rest sat silent, not
knowing what to say to Veronica. Nyoda bridged over the embarrassing
situation as best she could. "I'll be cook tonight," she said quietly. As
she moved about helping Gladys she thought and thought how this new
problem must be met. "It's the fault of her training," she told herself,
"and she really isn't a snob at heart. She'll be all right when she has
been with the girls awhile and watched them. It won't do to insist on her
doing the things she considers beneath her. She must be made to want to
do them first. But we'll make a real Winnebago of her in time!" And her
eyes strayed thoughtfully over to the corner of the hearth where Veronica
sat, a little apart from the rest, her brooding eyes on the fire, her
sensitive lip twisting into involuntary shivers of disgust when Sahwah
produced a particularly ear-splitting yowl.

"Hear and attend and listen, everybody," said Nyoda when the buttered
scones had been reduced to crumbs. "I have been doing some important
research work lately and am now ready to present the result of my
investigations."

"What are you talking about?" asked Hinpoha curiously.

"Two weeks ago tonight," continued Nyoda, "our meeting was broken up by a
band of young braves bearing the appetizing title of 'The Sandwich Club,'
who implored us to let them come and play with us in our Lodge and be
lodgers--kindly overlook the pun; it was quite unintentional--providing
we weighed them in the balance and found them not wanting."

"Is there any scale on which 'Slim' would be found wanting?" giggled
Sahwah,

"I have spent the last two weeks obtaining information," resumed Nyoda,
"which I am happy to report is of a highly satisfactory nature. So, all
things considered, and in spite of the informality of the request, I
humbly recommend that the aforesaid braves be allowed to lodge in the
bottom half of our Lodge at any and all times they may so desire. I might
add that I have already obtained the consent of our Bountiful Benefactor,
Gladys' papa. All in favor of letting in the Sandwich Club say 'Aye.'"

There was a perfect shout of "Ayes," followed by a ringing cheer.

"When are they going to take possession?" Sahwah wanted to know.

"I'm to tell them tomorrow what your decision was," replied Nyoda. "It
being Saturday, I suppose they will be down in a body to fix up according
to their own ideas."

"What will the interior of a Sandwich Club look like, I wonder?" said
Gladys.

"Hark, what was that noise?" asked Nyoda abruptly. The girls listened
intently. From the lower floor of the barn there came a thumping noise,
followed by a subdued crash.

"Somebody's in the barn," said Hinpoha in a frightened whisper.

The sound came again, thump, thump, and a noise as of a box being shoved
aside. "It's a burglar!" said Sahwah, and Nakwisi gave a frightened
squeak which Sahwah stifled with a sofa cushion.

"There's nothing in here to steal," said Nyoda. "Perhaps it's a tramp."
Again came the noise from below. Leaving the curtain drawn over the
opening, Nyoda went to the top of the ladder and called down, "Who's
there?" There was no answer but another thump. "We have a gun," said
Nyoda coolly, taking Sahwah's little rifle down from the wall, "and if
you put one foot on the ladder I'll shoot." Still no answer.

"I'm going down to investigate," said Nyoda. "This is growing uncanny."

"Don't go down," begged the girls, clinging to her, "something dreadful
will happen to you."

"If you go I'm going with you," declared Sahwah when Nyoda appeared
determined to rush into the jaws of danger. Nyoda threw aside the curtain
and flashed her bug light on the floor below. Nothing was visible within
the radius of the light, but over in the far corner where the old horse
stall was something was moving and thumping about and a sound like a
groan came from the darkness.

"Somebody's hurt," said Nyoda, hastening down the ladder. "Bring a
lantern with you, Sahwah."

Together they moved toward the corner while the girls above crowded
around the opening and watched in breathless suspense. The light revealed
a small donkey lying on the floor of the stall. He was kicking out with
his hind feet against the partition wall and it was this sound that had
frightened the girls above. At Sahwah's shout the others came hurrying
down to behold the find. The donkey made no effort to rise and looked at
the faces around him with an imploring look in his eyes as if to say,
"Help me, I'm in trouble."

"What's the matter, old chap?" asked Nyoda, kneeling down beside him. The
donkey answered with a distressed bray that was more like a groan and
pawed the air with his front feet, which seemed to be fastened together
in some manner. Nyoda turned the lantern around so the light fell
directly on him and then they saw what the matter was. A length of barbed
wire had become tangled around his front legs, binding them together, and
his frantic efforts to get it off had resulted in its becoming deeply
imbedded in the flesh, lacerating it badly. The girls shuddered when they
saw it and drew back.

"This won't do, girls," said Nyoda firmly; "we've got to get that wire
off the poor animal's leg. Medmangi, have you the nerve to do it? I'm
afraid I can't."

"His hind legs would have to be tied together first, so he can't kick,"
said Medmangi. The girls looked at each other and all drew back. All but
Veronica. She came forward quietly and took the rope which the others
were afraid to use and skilfully slipped a noose over the tiny heels and
fastened them down to a ring in the floor.

"I have done it before, when a horse was sick," she explained in response
to the girls' expressions of amazement at the neat performance. The
girls' liking for her, which had suffered a sudden chill at the cooking
episode, warmed again, and they were inclined to overlook that now that
she had stepped so neatly into the breach when they were helpless.

Then Medmangi, the Medicine Man Girl who was going to be a doctor, and
had no horror of surgery, bent calmly to her task while the others held
the lantern for her. Quickly and skilfully she worked, removing the cruel
points as gently as possible. Then she washed the wounds with an
antiseptic solution from the First Aid Cabinet upstairs and bound them up
with clean bandages. Then Veronica took the rope from the donkey's hind
legs and he struggled to his feet, plainly delighted to find his front
legs in working order again in spite of the pain. He looked at the girls
with a dog-like devotion in his intelligent eyes and when Medmangi patted
him soothingly he laid his head on her shoulder affectionately. "My first
lover--a donkey!" she said laughingly.

"Poor little mule," said Hinpoha, stroking him from the other side. "He
knew the right place to come to all right. 'Whose house is bare and dark
and cold, whose house is cold, this is his own,'" she quoted
dramatically. "We certainly have succeeded in creating the right
atmosphere of hospitality if even a lonely donkey can feel it and come
straight to our 'Open Portals!'"

"Now that he has come," said Nyoda, rather puzzled, "the question is what
to do with him. If he goes wandering off again he'll have those bandages
off in no time--he probably will anyhow--and his legs will get so sore he
will have to be shot. He undoubtedly belongs to somebody--very likely
some children's pet--and I think we had better keep him right here in the
barn until we find the owner. The boys will have to postpone their taking
possession in favor of the other donkey if his presence interferes with
their activities." Here the "other donkey" leaned against the wall in
such a pathetic attitude, as if his weight were too much for his sore
legs, that if they had had any intentions of turning him out into the
rain they would have speedily relented.

"It's a good thing this old stall is still here," said Gladys. "There
isn't any straw, but there is a box of excelsior and we can spread that
out and cover it with a blanket and make him a soft bed. We can give him
water tonight and bring food in the morning."

"And I'll telephone the Sandwiches about him," said Nyoda, "so if they
are coming over tomorrow they won't turn him out."

But that telephone message was unnecessary, for at that moment a number
of dark figures appeared in the doorway and after a moment of hesitation,
entered.

"Why, here are the Sandwiches," exclaimed Nyoda cordially, advancing with
extended hand. "We were just talking about you. Speaking of angels--you
know the rest."

"We were just going by," said the Captain (it was likely that they were
"just going by" that out of the way place in the rain!) "and saw your
light now you've left the windows uncovered, and thought we'd just step
in and inquire our fate. We just couldn't wait until tomorrow," he
finished in a boyish outburst. "Is it going to be the Open Door for us?"

"Bless you, yes," said Nyoda, smiling reassuringly at this manly lad who
was already her favorite, "there wasn't a dissenting vote in the jury
box. We----" but the remainder of her sentence was drowned in an
ear-splitting cheer that was decidedly less musical than the Winnebago
cheers, but none the less hearty.

"Pedigrees satisfactory, and all that?" inquired the Captain.

"Perfect," answered Nyoda with twinkling eyes. "I've dug up more facts
about you than you know yourselves. So," she added demurely, "if you're
still minded to 'know us better,' as you flatteringly remarked on the
occasion of our first meeting, why, we're perfectly willing to be known.

"But you can't take immediate possession of your club room because we've
rented it temporarily to another don--another fellow," she said
mischievously, turning the light of the lantern away from the stall where
the donkey was. The boys' eager faces fell a trifle.

"Of course," they answered politely, "that's your privilege."

"He's a very nice chap," pursued Nyoda, with a warning glance at the
girls behind her, who were stuffing their handkerchiefs into their mouths
in an effort not to laugh.

"Yes," assented the boys without enthusiasm.

"Is it anyone we know?" asked the Captain politely, trying to make
conversation after a moment of silence.

"Maybe you do know him," answered Nyoda. "He's here tonight. Would you
like to meet him?"

She led the way to the stall and turned the light on the donkey. There
was a moment of surprised silence, followed by a perfect explosion of
laughter. "Where'd you get the donkey with the trousers on?" squeaked
Slim in his high thin voice. In the dim light of the lantern the bandages
on the donkey's front legs looked like a pair of trousers. Then the
girls, after their laugh was out, explained about the visitor who had
come to them from out of the vast, and the Sandwiches declared that they
did not in the least mind sharing their club room with a needy donkey,
and offered to relieve the girls of the entire care of him, besides
trying to find the owner.

They were as good as their word about taking care of him, but the weeks
slipped by and no amount of advertising produced anything in the shape of
an owner.

"We'll have to adopt him," the Winnebagos decided. "A Camp Fire Donkey
sounds thrilling to me," said Sahwah. "Think of all the fun we'll have
with him. As long as the boys don't mind, we can keep him right here in
the stall."

"What shall we name him?" asked Gladys.

"Call him 'Wohelo,'" advised Hinpoha. "It was the spirit of Wohelo that
led him to us. From now on he'll be a symbolic donkey."

"But where do we come in on this?" inquired the Captain. "We take care of
him and he lives in our house."

"That's right," said Hinpoha. "Then let's call him 'Sandwich-Wohelo,'
contracted to 'Sandhelo.'" And "Sandhelo" he was until the end of the
chapter. His sore legs became very stiff until they were healed and he
hobbled painfully when he walked at all, which was very seldom. But the
scratches healed at last and the day came when Medmangi took off the
bandages for good, and led him around the barn for exercise.

Then an amazing thing happened. Sahwah was upstairs in the Lodge, amusing
herself with a mouth organ she had just discovered in the depths of her
bed. But she had no sooner blown half a dozen notes when Sandhelo jerked
up his head, pulling the bridle out of Medmangi's hands, and rose up on
his hind legs. Then he walked on his hind legs over to a box, climbed up
on it and sat there with his feet in the air, like a dog sitting up.
Medmangi screamed and brought the Winnebagos flying from all directions,
to behold the marvel in open-mouthed astonishment.

"He's a trick mule!" shouted Sahwah, tumbling down the ladder in her
excitement and never stopping to pick herself up. "Now I know where he
came from. He was with that dog and pony show that was in town a few
weeks ago. He must have strayed from the show and got left behind. Hats
off to the newest member of the Winnebago group! We certainly do have a
way of attracting all the best talent in town to our ranks!"




                               CHAPTER IV
                           A SANDEBAGO CIRCUS


Just how it started nobody ever knew--it may have been Sandhelo's turning
out to be a trick mule, or it may have been because Slim was fat and
would make such a beautiful clown, besides being fine for a sideshow--but
before they knew it the Winnebagos and the Sandwich Club were hard at
work getting up a circus. The Sandwiches had taken possession of their
half of the Open Door Lodge and had converted it into a gymnasium. They
had built it on purpose to reduce Slim, they carefully explained to their
friends, and regularly put him through a course of exercises strenuous
enough to reduce a hippopotamus to an antelope in three weeks, but at the
end of that time he had gained just five pounds, so the Sandwiches
declared their efforts to be love's labor lost and left him in peace.

Sandhelo was becoming a well-known and conspicuous figure in the streets.
Hitched to an old pony cart of Gladys', with bells jingling around his
neck and ribbons flying from his harness, he never failed to attract a
crowd of children. He had all the vagaries of the artistic temperament,
some of which caused his drivers no little inconvenience. For one thing,
he would not go at all unless he heard music, and it was no small
accomplishment to drive with one hand and play a mouth organ with the
other if you happened to be alone in the cart. And then, if he happened
to pass anything unusual in the street he had a way of sitting back on
his haunches and holding up his front feet and looking at them. As he
invariably sat down unexpectedly, the cart would go on and bump into him
and the shock would throw the driver from her seat, besides making a
great mess of the harness. Several times he had done this in the middle
of a busy crossing and held up traffic in both directions, while motormen
fumed and policemen threatened, and Sahwah (it usually was Sahwah,
because she drove him more than the others) played her sweetest on the
mouth organ in an effort to make him go on. Nothing would make him move
until his curiosity was satisfied and then he would dash off like an
arrow from the bow for half a block, after which he would slow down and
look over his shoulder to see how his driver was getting on. There was
always such a look of anxious solicitude in his eye on these occasions
that it was impossible to be angry with him and he continued to exercise
his temperament without reproof.

After half a dozen of these free shows Sahwah declared that such an
ability to draw a crowd was worth money, and they had better give a real
show and charge admissions.

The big space in front of the Open Door Lodge was an ideal place for the
ring. Seating arrangements for the audience gave them some anxiety at
first.

"We ought to have a grand stand," said the Captain, who had been chosen
Ringmaster.

"Well, we can't build one," said the Bottomless Pit. "The audience will
have to stand through the performance, and that'll be a grand stand, all
right."

"Innovation in circuses," said Nyoda. "Have the audience stand and the
circus sit down. Like the picture of the bride standing while the groom
sprawls at ease in the photographer's gilt chair."

"I think I can get a lot of chairs from a man who rents them out," said
the Captain. "He lets people have them for nothing if it's a charitable
enterprise."

"Do you call a circus a charitable enterprise?" asked Nyoda.

"Well, ours will be," said the Captain. "We're doing it to make money so
we can buy the new apparatus for the gym, which will surely make Slim
thin, and that surely is charity."

Upstairs in the Lodge the six Winnebagos were all seated on the bearskin
bed having a lively argument as to who should drive Slim in the Chair-iot
Race. The Chair-iot Race was a grand inspiration of Sahwah's, who was
keen on features in the circus line. Once, on a rummage, through Gladys'
attic, they had found six horsehair covered chairs furnished with
excellent china castors, which caused the chairs to roll with enchanting
speed. Sahwah now thought of the chairs and conceived the brilliant idea
of harnessing a Sandwich to each one, seat a Winnebago in the chair, and
race six abreast down the long cement walk from the barn to the road. The
idea was hailed with delight until the Winnebagos began comparing the
merits of the prospective steeds, and nobody wanted to be the one to
drive Slim and go lumbering along like an ice-wagon in the rear of the
others.

"It's too bad the Captain had to be Ringmaster and can't take part in the
show," sighed Hinpoha. "Then there'd be enough without Slim."

"We wouldn't dare leave him out, anyway," said Gladys. "It would hurt his
feelings. So we'll just have to draw lots for him, and whoever gets him
will have to make the best of it, that's all." So they drew slips of
paper from a hat and Hinpoha drew Slim, just as she had feared right
along. Sahwah drew the Monkey, which suited her down to the ground, for
he was a famous sprinter, and she lost no time getting the girls to ask
the boys whose names they had drawn in that secret ballot upstairs to be
their steeds in the race. Slim's face lighted up with such a delighted
smile when Hinpoha apparently chose him for her own that her heart smote
her when she thought how this choice had been thrust upon her. Slim was
already beginning to learn the bitter truth that nobody loves a fat man.
Nyoda and the Captain plotted the circus parade and it was a triumph of
ingenuity. The advance bills which they scattered broadcast among their
friends announced that the parade would embrace "Five ferocious animals
from the Other Side of Nowhere, these animals being respectively The
Camelk, The Crabbit, The Alligatortoise, The Kangarooster, and The
Salmonkey.

Other numbers on the program were as follows:

  Ivan Awfulitch, world's greatest magician; royal entertainer to the
  King of Spain. Was banished to Siberia; escaped and swam to America;
  has now opened up a complete line of magic. One day only.

  Mr. Skygack, from Mars, in a special song feature entitled the
  Mars-y-lays.

  La Zingara, the bareback rider.

  Sandhelo, the famous trick mule. As intelligent as two men and a school
  teacher.

  Mr. Avoirdupois Slim, fattest man on earth. Will sit on a toothpick.

  Mr. E. Lastic, Inja rubber man.

  Archibald Dimples the better baby.

  Chair-iot Race. Feat never attemped before on any stage.

  Monkey, the Aerial Gymnast, in the sensational dupe-the-dupes.

                      Twenty Other Great Features


             ALL CHILDREN WILL GET A FREE RIDE ON SANDELHO,
                      THE FAMOUS TRICK MULE, AFTER
                            THE PERFORMANCE


Bottomless Pitt owned a little hand-printing press and printed wonderful
tickets to be sold at five cents apiece, which Gladys declared were worth
the money as souvenirs, with the circus thrown in extra.

"What are you making, a circus tent?" asked Gladys, dropping into the
Lodge, where Nyoda sat stitching together great lengths of red and white
striped material.

"No; only a clown suit for Slim," laughed Nyoda. "Gracious, how much it
does take!"

"It reminds me of the riddle: 'If it takes thirty yards of cloth to make
a shirtwaist for an elephant, etc.,'" said Gladys. "Poor Slim! You would
have died to see him practice his clown stunt with Sandhelo. You know the
boys built him a tiny red cart with two big wheels, and when he sat down
in it, it tilted way over backward and the shafts stuck up in the air and
pulled poor little Sandhelo right up off his feet, and there he dangled,
pawing for dear life. But, whatever are you making, Hinpoha?" she
finished, examining the thing which Hinpoha was working on and which
resembled nothing in the universe.

"This is Peter's costume," answered Hinpoha; "he's the hind leg of the
Kangarooster, you know. By the way, Nyoda, has a Kangarooster one hump or
two?"

"None at all," answered Nyoda hastily. "The humps are on the 'Cam' part
of the Camelk. That reminds me, have we something to stuff the humps
with?"

"Take excelsior," advised Gladys. "Dear me, who's screeching like that
downstairs?"

They all crowded down the ladder at the sound of a lusty yell from below
and found Sahwah hanging head downward from a heavy hook in the wall. She
had improved a moment's leisure to climb up to the top of the window with
a spray of bittersweet to see how it would look, and in descending had
caught her skirt on the hook and lost her footing. The skirt tore through
until the stout serge hem was reached and that offered successful
resistance, and Sahwah hung, as Nyoda remarked, like a lamb on the spit.

"I got an idea hanging upside down," were the first words she gasped as
they restored her to the perpendicular and revived her with peanuts.

"It's the only way you ever would get an idea," said Hinpoha.

"Is that so?" returned Sahwah, with spirit "Who thought up the Chair-iot
Race, I'd like to know?"

"Stop bickering and tell us your idea," said Nyoda.

"Why, it's this," said Sahwah. "Sell hot cocoa with marshmallows in it
after the show. Everybody'll be cold sitting around. We can make almost
as much money that way as with the circus."

"A lake of hot cocoa with an island of marshmallows in it is my dream of
heaven," said Hinpoha, clasping her hands in ecstasy. "Sahwah, you're a
genius. I yield the palm to you without a struggle. You have a 'head in
your mind,' as absent-minded old Fuzzytop used to say. There's nothing in
the whole world that'll separate a nickel from its owner like a cup of
hot cocoa with a marshmallow floating in it on a cold day."

"Another innovation," said Nyoda. "We'll have that instead of circus
lemonade. See to getting the supplies, will you, Sahwah dear? I have so
many details to look after now that I simply cannot be responsible for
another thing, or my head will burst and out will come everything that's
safely packed in now. Come in, Captain. What's on your mind?"

"Slim," said the Captain, with a look of comical despair, as he sat down
among the girls. "I'm afraid he won't do for a Better Baby. He's smashed
three perambulators and a high chair and we can't get any more. And the
biggest size white dress we could buy in the store won't go half-way
around him."

Nyoda knitted her brows. "We simply have to have a Better Baby," she
affirmed. "It's one of the best features. We'll drape cheesecloth around
him for a dress and he can play on a quilt on the floor--I mean the
ground--instead of being taken for a ride by his nurse in a
perambulator."

"Poor Slim!" said Hinpoha. "How many more things are going to be wished
on him? I'm afraid his 'gall will be divided into three parts,' too!"

"That would have been a very clever thing for you to say," remarked the
Captain, "if it had been original, but it wasn't. They spring that over
at our school, too. Slim isn't doing any more than the rest of us at
that. Only he's so conspicuous that everything he does seems like a lot
more than it really is."

"How are the tickets going?" asked Sahwah.

"We've sold over a hundred," announced the Captain with pride. "We're
famous people, we are."

"Speak for yourself," said Sahwah. "It isn't we who are the attraction,
though--it's Sandhelo. I rode him through the streets and sold nearly
fifty tickets to the children that followed us. They're all attracted by
the promise of a free ride after the show."

"It'll probably take all evening to give them the ride, and we'll never
get to that jubilation spread we're going to have after the show, but we
have to make our word good," said Nyoda.

"Put them on four at once and we'll get done somehow," said Sahwah.

Hinpoha laid down her sewing and stretched her arms above her head. "I
never knew circuses were such a pile of work," she sighed.

  "'Wohelo means work,'
  So dig like a Turk,"

chanted Sahwah.

"I move we all go to the 'movies' tonight and see 'If I Were King,'"
continued Hinpoha.

"Can't," said Nyoda briefly, checking up on her fingers the things she
still had to do. "I still have to evolve a tail for the Salmonkey and a
frontispiece for the Camelk, make four banners, rehearse the living
statuary, make a bonnet for the Better Baby, teach the Crabbit how to hop
and crawl at the same time and make a costume for the bareback rider."

"I'd come and help you," said Sahwah, "but we're going to have a test in
Latin tomorrow and I have to cram tonight. I'll just have time to
practice with the band."

"A test in time saves nine," murmured Hinpoha. "What are the Sandwiches
doing now?"

"Erecting the flying trapeze," answered Sahwah, looking out of the
window. "Captain is hanging by his eyebrow to the top of a pole and
Bottomless Pitt is standing below, waiting to catch him when he falls."

The Captain caught her eye, as she leaned over the sill and shouted:

  "All right below,
  O Wohelo,
  Now _please_ go mix some pancake dough!"

"All right," called Sahwah cheerily. "You'll soon smell something
doughing!"

Nyoda and Gladys went home on an errand, and Hinpoha, worn out with her
arduous labors with the needle, stretched out on the bearskin bed and
fell sound asleep in the warmth of the fire. Sahwah puttered about
collecting the ingredients for flapjacks to make a treat for the boys,
who had worked like Trojans ever since school was out. The wood in the
fireplace had burned down to lovely glowing embers, and she laid the
toaster on top of them to act as a rest for the frying-pan. The Captain,
tying ropes into the branches of the big tree just outside of the window,
looked in and admired the scene. Hinpoha, with her marvellous red curls
falling around her face in the light of the fire, looked like a sleeping
princess in a fairy tale, and Sahwah, holding her dish of batter in one
hand and skilfully putting grease into the pan with the other, was a
cheery little housewife indeed. Through the half-open window he could
hear her singing "A Warrior Bold."

A moment he looked in, filled with whole-souled admiration for these
many-sided girls who were his new friends, and then without warning
something happened inside. The panful of sizzling fat suddenly burst into
a sheet of flame that left the confines of the fireplace and seemed to
leap all around Sahwah. A burning spark shot out and fell into a pile of
cheesecloth lying on the floor at the far side of the room, and it blazed
up instantly, the flames enveloping the sleeping Hinpoha. It took less
than a moment for the Captain to spring down from the tree, run into the
barn and up the ladder. But it was too late for him to do anything. In
the twinkling of an eye Sahwah had seized the burning cheesecloth and
flung it into the fireplace, thrown a bearskin rug over Hinpoha and now
stood calmly pouring sand from a bucket on top of the burning fat in the
pan. And all the while she was doing it she had never stopped singing!
The Captain stood still in his amazement and listened idly to the words:

  "So what care I, though death be nigh?
  I'll live for love or die----"

A hoarse sound made her turn around and she saw the Captain standing
beside her with face pale as ashes. The dreadful sight he had seen from
the tree when the room seemed filled with flame was still in his mind.

"How did you manage to keep so cool and do everything so quickly?" he
asked in amazement.

Sahwah laughed at his expression of astonishment. "That's not the first
fire I've put out," she said calmly. "We always keep both water and sand
on hand whenever we have an open fire, to prevent serious accidents.
Having the cheesecloth go up at the same time rather complicated matters,
but I got it into the fireplace without any trouble. I don't know what
made the fat in the pan take fire; it's never done that before up here.
But don't worry; I'll get your flapjacks made, all right."

The Captain looked at her with more admiration than ever. "Most girls
would have been in a faint by that time, and have had to be doused with
smelling salts," he told the Sandwiches later, "instead of coolly
promising you your flapjacks anyway and apologizing for the delay!"

"Your hands are burned!" he exclaimed in concern, as he saw Sahwah
looking ruefully at her blackened fingers. "Let me do something for
them."

"Nothing serious," said Sahwah, turning them down so he could not see the
blistered palms.

"They are, too!" persisted the Captain. "Have you any oil handy?"

"In the First Aid box over there," said Sahwah. "It's in that bottle
labeled A Burned Child Dreads the Fire."

The Captain returned with cotton and gauze and the oil and proceeded to
bandage the scorched hands that had been so quick to avert disaster.

"Won't Hinpoha be furious when she wakes up and finds her costume that
she worked so hard on all burned up?" she said, as he wound the bandages
under her direction. "I hated to throw it into the fire, but it had to be
done."

"She'd better not be furious," returned the Captain. "She's got you to
thank that she didn't burn up herself. She had a close call that time,
and if you hadn't snatched that burning rag off her and covered her with
a rug I'd hate to think what would have happened. I tell you it's great
to be able to do the right thing at the right time. A lot of people talk
about what they would do in an emergency, but very few of them ever do
it."

"Well," returned Sahwah coolly, holding up her hands and inspecting the
bandages with a critical eye, "there is an emergency before us right now.
Suppose you stop talking and get busy and fry those pancakes for the
boys. They're dying of starvation outside."

The Captain started, blushed and looked at her keenly to see if she were
making fun of him, and then fell to work without a word finishing
Sahwah's interrupted labor.




                               CHAPTER V
                        THE ARRIVAL OF KATHERINE


Preparations were completed and the day for the presentation of the
greatest show on earth had arrived. It was crisply cool, but clear and
sunshiny, as the last Saturday in beloved October should be; and not too
cold to sit still and witness an out-of-doors performance. Tickets had
sold with such gratifying readiness that a second edition had been
necessary, and the Committee on Seating Arrangements was nearly in
despair over providing enough seats.

"It's no use," declared Bottomless Pitt, "we've done the best we could
and half of them will still have to stand. It'll be a case of 'first
come, first served.'"

Sahwah and Hinpoha, their arms filled with bundles of "props," which they
had spent the morning in collecting, sank wearily down at a table in the
"Neapolitan" soda dispensary and ordered their favorite sundaes. "Now,
are you perfectly sure we have everything?" asked Hinpoha, between
spoonfuls.

"There's the Better Baby's rattle," recounted Sahwah, identifying her
parcels by feeling of them, "the Magician's natural hair a foot long, the
china eggs he finds in the lady's handbag, the bareback rider's spangles,
and--O Hinpoha!" she cried in dismay, dropping her spoon on the tile
floor with a great clatter, "we forgot the red, white and blue cockade
for Sandhelo. I'll have to go back to Nelson's and get it. Dear me, it's
eleven o'clock now and we still have to go out home and dress. And the
marshmallows have to be bought yet; that's another thing I promised Nyoda
I'd see about. Won't you please get them, Hinpoha, while I run up to
Nelson's? There's a dear. Get them at Raymond's--theirs are the freshest;
and then you had better go right on home without waiting for me. It will
take me a little longer, but I'll hurry as fast as I can. And please tell
Nyoda that I didn't forget the marshmallows this time; I just turned the
responsibility over to you." And Sahwah gathered up her bundles and
retraced her steps toward the big up-town store, while Hinpoha took her
way to Raymond's. Five pounds of marshmallows make a pretty big box, and
Hinpoha had several other parcels to carry. She had them all laid out on
the counter with an eye to tying some of them together to facilitate
transportation when a voice suddenly called out: "Dorothy! Dorothy
Bradford!" She turned and saw Miss Parker, one of the teachers at
Washington High, at the other end of the counter. "Come and meet my
cousin," said Miss Parker, and brought forward a young girl she had with
her. "This is Katherine Adams," said Miss Parker. "Katherine, I would
like you to meet one of my pupils, Dorothy Bradford."

Hinpoha acknowledged the introduction cordially, but it was all she could
do to suppress a smile at Katherine's appearance. She was an extremely
tall, lanky girl, narrow chested and stoop shouldered, with scanty
straw-colored hair drawn into a tight knot at the back of her neck, and
pale, near-sighted eyes peering through glasses. She wore a long
drab-colored coat, cut as severely plain as a man's, and a narrow-brimmed
felt sailor hat. She wore no gloves and her hands were large and bony.
Her shoes--Hinpoha looked twice in her astonishment to make sure--yes,
there was no mistake, the shoes she had on were not mates! One was a
cloth-top button and the other a heavy laced walking boot. Miss Parker
followed Hinpoha's surprised glance and looked distressed. But Katherine
was not at all disconcerted when she discovered the discrepancy in her
footgear.

"That's what you get for interrupting me in the middle of my dressing,"
she said coolly. "Now, I've forgotten which pair I intended to wear." She
had an odd, husky voice, that made everything she said sound funny.

Miss Parker seemed rather anxious that her cousin should make a good
impression on Hinpoha. Katherine was from Spencer, Arkansas, she
explained, and had gone as far in school as she could out there and had
now come east to stay with her cousin and take the last year in high
school. Hinpoha promised to introduce her around to the girls in the
class, with her eyes on the clock all the while and her mind on the
performance she should be helping to prepare that minute instead of
standing there talking.

"Won't you come to our circus this afternoon?" she said politely, fishing
among the small "props" in her handbag. "Here's a ticket. It's going to
be in the big field at the corner of May and ----th streets. Come into
the barn if you come and I'll introduce you to some of my friends."

Miss Parker and her caricature of a cousin finally departed, and Hinpoha
hastily gathered up her bundles. Something about the package of
marshmallows struck her as unfamiliar, and she examined it in
consternation. It certainly was not her package, though like it in shape.
Somebody had taken hers by mistake. She looked around the store and was
just in time to see her box being carried out the front door under the
arm of a woman. Hinpoha gathered her packages into her arms hit and miss
and rushed after her. But impeded as she was she got stuck in the
revolving door and was delayed a full minute before she escaped to the
sidewalk. She was just in time to see the object of her pursuit board a
car at the corner. Before Hinpoha could reach the corner the car had
started. Hinpoha stamped her foot with vexation, mostly directed toward
Miss Parker and her freak cousin for taking her attention away from her
belongings. Then she considered. The car the woman had boarded must make
a loop and come out a block below and it would be possible to catch it
there. Hinpoha puffed along the sidewalk at a great rate, worming her way
through the Saturday noon crowds and colliding with people right and
left. She reached the corner just as the car did and made a mad dash over
the pavement, dodging in among wagons and automobiles at dire peril of
life and limb. She scrambled aboard and landed sprawling on the back
platform, while her bundles scattered over the floor in every direction.
Breathless and embarrassed, she gathered them up and entered the car just
in time to see the lady carrying her box of marshmallows get out of the
front door. Hinpoha made a wild dash for the rear exit, but the door was
closed and the car already in motion. She rang the bell frantically, at
the same time following the woman with her eyes to see in which direction
she went. The car finally released her two blocks up street, and then
began the mad chase back again. Poor Hinpoha was never built for speed;
her breath gave out and she developed an agonizing pain in her side. Her
bundles weighed her down and her hat flopped into her eyes. Chugging
along thus she ran smartly into someone and again her packages covered
the sidewalk.

"Oh, excuse me!" she gasped, struggling to get her hat back on her head.
"I couldn't see where I was going. _Why, Captain_----" For it was none
other than he with whom she had collided.

"Pretty well loaded down, aren't you?" said the Captain, stooping to pick
up the litter on the sidewalk.

"Never mind them," said Hinpoha hastily, "go after _her_."

"Go after _her_?" repeated the Captain in a tone of bewilderment.

Hinpoha pointed speechlessly up the street and then with a mighty effort
regained a speck of her breath and panted "Lady--blue coat--plush
collar--our marshmallows--left this--Raymond's--go get them," and,
shoving the stranger's package into his hands, she indicated with waving
arms that he was to pursue the lady in question and regain the club's
property. The Captain started off obediently, though her explanation was
not yet clear in his mind, but the truth flashed over him when he
presently overtook a lady that fitted the description just turning into
the door of Raymond's store with a large package under her arm, and he
soon made his errand known and recovered the marshmallows. She was just
in the act of returning them to Raymond's, having discovered her mistake.

Hinpoha was out in front when the Captain emerged from the store, and she
surrendered her bundles to him gratefully, saying with a breathless sigh,
"Boys _are_ useful to have around once in a while, after all."

"Only once in a while?" asked the Captain.

"Well, maybe twice in a while, then," said Hinpoha graciously.

Hinpoha arrived on the scene of action so late that there was no time to
press her for explanations; she was summarily hustled out of her street
clothes and into her orchestra costume. The audience was arriving in
crowds and the Sandwiches, who were detailed as ticket takers, had much
to do to keep legions of small boys from climbing the fence and seeing
the show without the formality of buying a ticket.

The Grand Parade, "including every single member of the entire show," was
scheduled to start promptly at two. The parade was necessarily held in
sections, as all hands were needed for each section. The clock in a
neighboring steeple had not finished chiming the hour when there was an
unearthly blare of trumpets and crashing of drums, and the band issued
from the entrance of the Open Door Lodge. Nyoda led the band and made a
stunning drum major in a fur hat a foot high, made out of a muff. The
members of the band were dressed as Spanish troubadours in costumes of
blinding scarlet, with their instruments hung around their neck by
ribbons. They marched around the ring at a lively pace, playing the music
of a popular football song, which made the audience cheer wildly, for it
was largely composed of students from the two great rival schools,
Washington High and Carnegie Mechanic. In the wake of the troubadours
stumbled an enormously fat clown in a suit half red and half white,
blowing up a rubber bladder, which emitted a plaintive squawk. Loud
applause greeted every move the clown made and when he accidentally
stumbled into a hole and measured his length on the ground the small boys
shrieked in ecstasy.

The band made a stately and melodious exit in the House of the Open Door
and once inside broke ranks in haste to prepare for the second section of
the parade--the procession of the animals. This was a much more
complicated matter than the band had been, but it had been so well
rehearsed that the crowd, who were being amused by the antics of the
clown, had not time to grow impatient before they were ready. Shrieks of
delight went up at the appearance of the five ferocious animals from
Nowhere--The Camelk, The Crabbit, The Alligatortoise, The Kangarooster
and The Salmonkey, and they had to go around the ring five times before
being allowed to retire. The parade being such an unqualified success, it
is needless to say that the circus proper went even better. The actors
had all worked themselves up into the right mood for it.

The magician gave more entertainment than he had counted on, for the
mice, which he had concealed in his pocket ready to produce from under
the folded handkerchief, bit him before their turn in the show came, and
the beholders were startled to see the magician suddenly spring into the
air, uttering a wild yell and, thrusting his hand into his hip pocket,
throw the cause of the disturbance half-way across the ring. The Fattest
Man on Earth, who was Slim, with the addition of several pillows fore and
aft, mounted the small stage and laboriously sat on a toothpick, breaking
down the stage in the process; and the Inja Rubber Man did such amazing
contortions that the audience began to hold their breath for fear he
would never come untangled again.

When it happened to be her turn to go out in one of the numbers Hinpoha
looked the audience over to see if Katherine Adams had come in response
to her invitation, but she did not see her. But, while looking for
Katherine, her eye was caught by a strange figure, the like of which she
had never seen before. She was a woman, old and bent, and dressed in such
old-fashioned clothes that she looked like a caricature out of a funny
page. She had on a tight green basque, which flared out below the waist
in a ripple and a very full red skirt, held out in a ridiculous curve by
that atrocity of bygone days known as a "bustle." She was climbing
stiffly up and down among the spectators trying to sell papers which she
was crying in a shrill voice. As she went up and down among the benches
she held up her skirt in her hand, disclosing purple stockings and
enormous flapping slippers. Wherever she went she was followed by a
ripple of laughter; the audience seemed to be getting as much fun out of
her as they were out of the show. Hinpoha told Nyoda about it when she
was in the barn again and Nyoda asked all the players not to do anything
to drive her away, as she was no doubt trying to make an honest living by
selling papers wherever there was a crowd, and she was adding an
unexpected touch to the circus to amuse the audience.

The bareback rider proved a real sensation. Up to that time the numbers
had merely been in the nature of stunts--clever and original and highly
diverting, and yet something which any group of young people could
produce. But here was something different. Veronica was so dark that in
her costume she looked like a real gypsy, and as she was not yet well
known she was not recognized. She came in riding a beautiful black horse
that belonged to Mr. Evans, and, after galloping around the ring several
times and making him rear up on his hind legs until the audience thought
she must slide off, she set him to leaping obstacles, keeping her seat
all the while with amazing ease. There was a touch of realism in her act,
too, which made the audience tingle for a while. In their eagerness to
see the horse and the daring rider the children down in the front row had
pressed forward until they were fairly under the ropes. Without warning a
little girl lost her balance and fell out into the ring, rolling right
into the path of the galloping horse. An exclamation of horror went up
from the crowd, and many covered their eyes with their hands. The others,
gazing as if fascinated, saw the horse in obedience to a quick command
leap into the air with all four feet and come down several feet beyond
the little form on the ground. Shouts rose up from every side and cheers
for the skilful horsewoman who had been able to avert a tragedy when it
was too late to turn aside. But Veronica sat unmoved, a graceful statue
on the beautiful horse, looking out over the audience with brooding eyes
that saw them not.

Of course the _piece de resistance_ of the whole show was the trick mule,
Sandhelo. He had been the most widely advertised feature and had been the
means of selling the most tickets. The small boys came lured by the
promise of a free ride after the show and could hardly wait for that time
to come. His appearance in the ring was hailed with tumultuous applause.
Led by the clown, who played the mouth organ constantly to assure his
continuous locomotion, he did his tricks over and over again, lying down
as if dead when Slim played "John Brown's Body," and springing to his
feet with a lively bray when he played "Yankee Doodle"; and sitting up on
the table and waving his fore feet at the audience while he tossed a lump
of sugar on his nose.

Then the clown tried to ride him and fell off, first on one side and then
the other, and after several vain attempts offered a quarter to anyone in
the audience who would come out and ride him around the ring. As the
players along knew that Sandhelo would only go to music, they anticipated
no little fun from this business. Sandhelo was perfectly safe to ride--he
was as gentle as a kitten--but his refusal to stir when commanded made
him appear a very balky mule indeed, and there was no response to Slim's
invitation for somebody to come out and ride him. Even the small boys,
who were eager to ride him, preferred to wait until the show was over
before making the trial.

"Don't all come at once," appealed Slim in derision. "One at a time,
please. Who'll ride the famous trick mule, Sandhelo, around the ring and
win the handsome prize of twenty-five cents, a whole quarter of a
dollar?" Still no volunteers. Sandhelo yawned and looked bored to death.
Slim stretched out his hands to the audience imploringly.

Suddenly there was a commotion at one end of the seats and down from the
top of the picnic tables, where the raised seats were, there climbed the
little old woman who had gone around selling papers. "I'll ride him for
twenty-five cents," she cackled in her high shrill voice. And she hobbled
across the ring to where Sandhelo stood. The players were ready to hug
themselves with joy. Here was a real circus-y touch they had not counted
on.

"Aren't you afraid she'll get hurt?" whispered Hinpoha to Nyoda.

"No danger," returned Nyoda. "Sandhelo won't go a step without the mouth
organ."

The little old woman, her back bent almost double, shuffled over and
grasped Sandhelo, not by the bridle, but by the cockade on his head. Then
she suddenly straightened up and a gasp of astonishment went around the
circle. She was taller than the tallest of them. Without assistance from
anyone she climbed on Sandhelo's back and sat with her face toward his
tail. The audience, suspecting that it was a "put-up job," and this was
another stunt, roared its appreciation, but the players looked at each
other in utter bewilderment. Who was this strange character?

Sandhelo was a very small donkey, standing no higher than a Shetland
pony, and when the old lady was seated on his back her feet dragged on
the ground. Calmly crossing them underneath his body, she gave his tail a
smart jerk, accompanied by the shrill command, "Giddap!" Sandhelo,
mortified to death at the undignified position of his rider, had but one
idea in his mind--to escape from the gibing crowd and hide his head in
his stable. Around the ring he flew as fast as his tiny legs would carry
him, the old woman sticking to him like a burr, her bonnet strings flying
in the wind, her big slippers flapping against his sides, and her shrill
voice urging him on to greater speed. The act brought down the house and
a whole row of folding camp chairs collapsed under the strain of the
applause.

Beside himself with rage and shame, Sandhelo bolted into the barn and
carried his strange rider into the midst of the company of players.
Sliding off his back, she looked around the ring of curious faces before
her with little twinkling gray eyes. Then she held out her hand
suggestively. "Where's the quarter I git fer ridin' the mule?" she asked.
Something in her voice awakened a memory in Hinpoha's mind. In a
twinkling she was carried back to the incident at Raymond's that noon
when Miss Parker stopped to present her cousin from the west. Surely
there never were two such voices! At the same time Hinpoha noticed that
the old woman's gray hair was sliding back on her head, and a long wisp
of yellowish hair was hanging out underneath. She stared at the curious
figure in growing wonder, and the woman stared back at her with a knowing
grin that became wider every moment. Then with a quick movement the old
woman snatched off a gray wig, mopped a damp handkerchief over her face,
produced a pair of glasses from some pocket in the wide skirt, and stood
before them the same awkward, ungainly creature that Hinpoha had met that
noon. It was Katherine Adams, Miss Parker's cousin.

Such a babel there was when Hinpoha recognized the strange comedian and
presented her to the others! The waiting audience was completely
forgotten as they listened fascinated while Katherine explained how she
had come "by special invitation" to the circus and had decided that
people who had "pep" enough to get up a circus were worth knowing, and
the best way to get acquainted with the players was to be in the show
herself. So she had joined the company without the formality of being
asked.

"You're appointed assistant clown for the remainder of the circus," said
Nyoda.

"And you're invited to the spread upstairs afterwards," said Hinpoha.

"It's time for the Chair-iot Race," said the Captain warningly, and the
players returned to their duties with a guilty start. The new comedian
proved such a diversion and put the regular clown up to so many tricks
that he would never have thought of by himself, that the audience refused
to go home when the big show was over, and called for encore after
encore.

"Let's get her to sell cocoa," suggested Gladys; "they'll buy from her
when they wouldn't from us."

So Katherine, who up until a few hours ago had never heard of the
Winnebagos and Sandwiches, did more for them in the way of dispensing
cups of cocoa at five cents a cup than they were able to do for
themselves. She made such inimitably droll speeches in her efforts to
advertise her wares that the audience crowded around her just to hear her
talk, and bought and bought until the huge kettles were empty and the
paper box till was full. The small boys crowded around the Ringmaster,
demanding their ride on the trick mule, and, tearing himself away from
the fascinating orator, he betook himself to the barn, followed by the
whole string of would-be riders. But when he arrived there the stall was
empty and Sandhelo was nowhere to be found. Loud chorus of disappointment
from the small boys. The Captain turned their interest in Sandhelo to
account by enlisting them in the search for him, but it was vain. Nowhere
could they find a trace of him. His shame at the indignity heaped upon
him that afternoon had been too great. Finding his stall left open in the
excitement he had escaped and wandered off while the attention of
everyone was riveted on the antics of the new comedian, and hid his head
among new scenes and faces. The small boys finally gave up and went home,
partly consoled by the assurance that if Sandhelo ever turned up again
the promised ride would still be theirs, and the players, rather
exhausted, but exulting over the success of the performance, gathered in
the Winnebago room of the Open Door Lodge for the jollification spread.

Katherine Adams was the lioness of the evening. Begged for a speech, she
obligingly mounted the table and held a discourse that left her hearers
limp with merriment. What she said was sidesplitting enough, but her
gestures, her expression and her voice were beyond description. She spoke
in a lazy southern drawl, mixed up with a nasal twang, and the peculiarly
veiled, husky quality of her voice gave it a sound the like of which was
never heard before. She still wore the big flapping slippers and had much
ado to keep them on when she climbed on the table with the mincing air of
a young miss making an elocution lesson. She planted her feet carefully,
heels together and toes apart, taking several minutes in the operation,
and then surveyed them with a silly smirk of satisfaction that was
convulsing. When her discourse became a little heated the feet suddenly
flew around and toed in until both heels and toes were in a straight
line. At the ripple of laughter which this called forth she looked down
at her feet with a sad, pained expression and carefully set them right
again. A few moments later she again waxed eloquent and again the feet
turned, seemingly of themselves, and this time her toes pointed outward
until toes and heels were all one straight line. The shrieks of delight
made her look down again, with that same puzzled, pained expression, and
again she set them right in an affected manner.

When the speech was over the boys and girls begged her to do it again,
and kept her speechifying until she declared she had no voice left to
whisper. "You know I have to be very careful of my voice," she said in a
tone of confiding simplicity. "It's so sweet that I'm afraid of cracking
it all the time."

Katherine was too good to be true. "Just like a character out of a book,"
the delighted Winnebagos whispered to one another. Before the evening was
over they had unanimously decided to urge--not merely invite, mind you,
but urge--her to become a Winnebago. Katherine was delighted with the
idea and accepted the invitation with another convulsing speech. It
seemed incredible to the girls that they had met her just that afternoon.
It seemed as if they had known her always. She fitted into their group
like a thumb on a hand. She was plied with slumgullion and every other
delicacy, and her health was drunk in numerous cups of cocoa. The
continual flow of banter which the Winnebagos usually kept up among
themselves was hushed, and everyone was willing to put the soft pedal on
her own speech if only Katherine would talk some more. She told
fascinating things about her life on a big stock farm out in Arkansas.

"Are there any Indians around there?" asked Veronica, whose ideas of the
American Far West were rather hazy and romantic.

"Indians!" said Katherine. "I should say there were! They're something
terrible. Why, you don't dare hang your clothes on the line, because the
Indians will shoot them full of arrows! And then," she continued, as she
saw Veronica's eyes becoming saucerlike, "there are all kind of wild
animals out there, too. We can't keep milk standing around in the pantry
because the wildcats come in and drink it up, and the bears shed their
hair all over the carpet! Why, one day I came in from the yard and there
was a rattlesnake curled up on the piano stool!"

The Winnebagos and the Sandwiches doubled up with merriment at her awful
"yarns," but Veronica believed every word of it.

"O Katherine, you awful thing, I'm in love with you," cried Hinpoha, in
rather mixed metaphor, and drew her down on the bearskin bed beside her.
"Goodness, Veronica, don't look so excited. All the Indians there are in
this country now are on reservations, and they're entirely peaceable. You
mustn't believe a word she says."

The jollification supper ended in a hilarious Virginia Reel, which hardly
anyone could dance for laughing at Katherine's big slippers, as she
shuffled up and down the line.

"What a day this has been," sighed Hinpoha to Gladys, with whom she was
spending the night, as she sank down on the bed with all her clothes on.
"We've made enough money to equip the Sandwiches' gym be-yoo-tifully;
we've made Veronica famous as a horsewoman; we've lost our trick mule and
gained a new member for the Winnebagos. In the classic words of our
gallant Captain, I think that's 'going some.'"




                               CHAPTER VI
                           A MORAL OBLIGATION


Katherine's entry into High School life was a complete success--one of
those rare, astonishing successes that happen about once in a decade. The
regular members of the class, who have been together since the beginning,
will by constant effort have attained a fair measure of popularity by the
fourth year, when suddenly a personality will appear out of the vast and
seize and hold the center of the stage. Katherine's spectacular exploit
at the Sandebago Circus was heralded far and wide, and when she entered
school the following Monday morning she found herself already famous.
Everywhere she was pointed out as "the girl who had ridden the donkey,"
"the girl with the funny voice," "the girl who made the screaming
speeches." Teachers agreed unanimously that she was the most erratically
brilliant student they had ever had in their classes--when she could
remember to turn her work in. Her compositions were read out in class and
brought down the house. When she rose to recite you could hear a pin
drop. It was an open secret that the two English teachers had drawn lots
to see who would get her, and not a few pupils suddenly discovered
conflicts in their recitations and got themselves changed into the class
where Katherine was.

Her absent-mindedness soon became proverbial. Odd shoes--gloves of two
different colors--hat on hind side before, or somebody else's hat
altogether--these were everyday occurrences. Her friends told with
chuckles how she had climbed one flight of stairs too many on her way to
Math class and walked into a Freshman English class, her mind busy
working out the solution of a problem in geometry. When some other
Katherine was called upon to recite she rose solemnly and, going to the
board, gave a masterly demonstration of a knotty theorem in solid
geometry, and then marched out with the class, serenely unconscious of
her mistake, oblivious to the laughter of the class and the amusement of
the teacher, who let her go on without interruption to see how far she
would go. Her bewilderment when asked by the regular geometry teacher to
explain why she had cut class that morning was comical.

Possessing neither beauty, style, pretty clothes, nor all the dozen other
things that make the ordinary girl popular, her very unusualness gave her
a distinction, and inside of two weeks she was the best-known girl in the
whole school. To be counted as one of her friends was an honor, and to be
able to say, "Katherine told me this," or, "Katherine did this up at our
house," was to incite the envy of less favored ones. The Uranians, the
most exclusive and select girl's society in the school, voted her in as a
member because they must have all the prominent girls, although they
generally scorned both worth and brains, if clothed in poor garments, and
great was their chagrin to find that their disdained rivals, the clever
and democratic Dramatic Club, had held a special meeting and taken her in
the afternoon before. Urania had not noticed that Katherine had been
wearing the Dramatic Club pin a whole day because she had stuck it over a
hole in her stocking which she did not have time to mend.

How the Winnebagos exulted because Hinpoha had been polite enough to
invite her to the circus and she had consequently landed in their bosom
the first thing! No other group of girls would ever know her as
intimately as they would. The Camp Fire idea appealed to her from the
start. The Open Door Lodge was a paradise for her. The ladder stairs were
a constant source of delight.

"One would think you had never climbed a ladder before," said Hinpoha,
watching curiously as Katherine climbed up and down and up again just for
the fun of the thing. Katherine draped her feet around a rung to support
herself and sat on the top bar.

"I never did," she said simply.

"Never climbed a ladder!" said Hinpoha incredulously. "Why, where did you
live?"

"In Arkansas," answered Katherine significantly. "Do you know," she went
on, "that until I came east I had never seen a flight of stairs? _I had
never seen a flight of stairs!_" she repeated, as Hinpoha and the other
girls in the Lodge gasped unbelievingly. "We lived in a one-story house,
the floor level with the ground, so you just walked in from the outside
without going up steps. The house was in the middle of a big farm, as
level and flat as this floor. I rode ten miles to school and that was
built just like our house. Oh, of course I knew there were such things as
stairs, because I had seen them in pictures, but until I came here I had
never seen any."

"But didn't you see any when you went traveling?" asked Hinpoha, still
incredulous.

"Never went traveling," returned Katherine. "It took considerable
hustling to stay right where we were. One year the locusts ate up
everything, down to the clothes on the line, and we couldn't get enough
feed to fatten the stock; the next year there were prairie fires that
licked the earth as clean as a plate; one year the cattle all died of
disease, and so on. It wasn't until this year that we came out ahead
enough to send me here to school."

And when the girls heard what a hard time she had had they adored her
more than ever because she could be so funny when she had had so little
to be funny about.

Another thing that charmed her beyond measure was the color of the autumn
leaves. The Winnebagos could hardly pull her past a tree. "There was only
one tree in sight on our farm," she would tell them, "and that wasn't
green like the trees are in the east; it was just a dusty, greenish gray.
And the leaves didn't turn colors in the fall; they just withered up and
dropped off. Oh-h-h, look at that one over there--isn't it just too
gorgeous for words?"

When we said that both teachers and pupils regarded Katherine as too good
to be true, we should have made one exception. That exception was Miss
Snively, the Senior Oratory teacher. Most of the teachers were liked by
some scholars and disliked by some, according to disposition or
circumstance; but all pupils agreed heartily that they did not like Miss
Snively. She was neither old nor bad looking; in fact, she was rather
handsome when you saw her for the first time, but she was so bitingly
sarcastic that her classes stood in fear and trembling of being singled
out for some poisoned shaft. Sarcasm and ridicule are the most deadly
weapons to use against boys and girls of the high school age. They are
not old enough to know how to come back, and can only nurse the smart and
writhe impotently. And of all classes to have a sarcastic teacher, Senior
Oratory is the worst. It is bad enough to stand up and make a speech with
appropriate gestures before a sympathetic teacher who corrects
diplomatically and never, never laughs, but to have one who eyes you
coldly all the while and then gets up and does it the way you did, only
ten times worse--more buckets of tears had been shed over Senior Oratory
than all other subjects put together.

When Katherine entered the class Miss Snively took immediate exception to
her voice. Miss Snively's particular hobby was Woman's Voice. Hers was
high and artificially sweet--it fairly oozed syrup--and she did her level
best to make her girl pupils imitate it. So when Katherine began reading
in her husky nasal drawl, Miss Snively promptly read the piece after her,
imitating her voice as best she could, and then looked around the room
for the laughter of the pupils which would complete Katherine's
mortification. But nobody laughed. They all sympathized with Katherine.
They had been in her shoes themselves. The blood mounted to Katherine's
temples when she realized that Miss Snively was deliberately making fun
of her, and a hurt look came into her eyes. She was sensitive about her
voice, even if she did get endless fun out of it. When Miss Snively
handed her the book again and bade her in sarcastic tones to read further
for the edification of the class, Katherine sat silent. To her horror she
found there was a lump in her throat and she would most likely break down
utterly if she tried to say a word. She did not mean to be stubborn--she
was only waiting for control of her voice, for she was too proud to let
Miss Snively see how badly she felt. So she sat silent, miserably
twisting her handkerchief in her hands.

"Go back to your session room," said Miss Snively sharply, who boasted of
her summary measures with her scholars. So Katherine left the room in
disgrace. From that time on there was a marked antagonism between those
two. Miss Snively lost no chance to make Katherine ridiculous in class,
and, while Katherine had too much respect for teachers to openly defy
her, she "took off" her affected manners to delighted audiences outside
of class, and Miss Snively knew it and was powerless to stop it. But,
outside of her skirmishes with Miss Snively, Katherine's progress through
school was a triumphal march.

In every school, and Washington High was no exception, there will be
found various elements--some good and some bad. Color rushes, which had
given an annual vent to the mysterious feeling of hostility which always
exists between junior and senior classes, had been abolished. But the
feeling still existed, and manifested itself in various skirmishes. The
year before, when the juniors gave their annual dance, the seniors
carried away the refreshments. On the night of the senior dance the
lights refused to work, and, of course, the juniors were at the bottom of
the mystery. The principal, thinking rightly that pranks of this kind
reflected little credit on his school, wrathfully declared that if any of
the seniors attempted to spoil the juniors' party this year there would
be trouble. But there were certain lawless spirits in the senior class
who still thought pranks of that nature funny, and it was not long before
plans were hatching as merrily as before. It was all very vague, what was
going to be done and who was going to do it, but it was in the air, and
everybody who was up on school affairs knew there was a storm brewing.

The first definite news came to the Winnebagos through Katherine. "I've
been asked to a select party," she announced one night up in the Open
Door Lodge, spreading her bony hands out before the blazing log on the
hearth. "It's something like the Boston Tea Party," she went on.

"Must be going to be quite an affair," said Gladys, who was stirring
fudge over the fire. "May we inquire where?"

"Oh, girls," said Katherine, with a serious face, "do you know what's in
the wind? The Seniors are to put a lot of live mice through the windows
in the middle of the Junior dance."

"The Seniors?" exclaimed Hinpoha and Gladys in one breath. "What
Seniors?"

"Oh, Charlie Hughes and Eddie Myers and that bunch. You know the half
dozen that go around together and call themselves the Clan? Well, those.
They were mixed up in the business last year." Although Katherine was a
newcomer in the school she was already well versed in its history.

"How did you find it out?" asked Hinpoha.

"Cora Burton told me." Cora was one of Katherine's devoted admirers and
tried hard to be chummy with her, although Katherine did not care for her
in the least. "Cora's a particular friend of Charlie Hughes, and she and
some other girls are going along to see the fun. But she couldn't keep it
secret and told me today and asked if I wanted to go along."

"Oh, Katherine, you're not going?" said Sahwah anxiously.

The disgusted expression on Katherine's face was answer enough.

"Hadn't we better tell some of the teachers?" asked Gladys, pausing in
her stirring. "I wish Nyoda were here." Miss Kent had been called out of
town on account of the death of an aunt and would be away until after the
party.

"We ought to, I think," said Hinpoha.

Katherine stood up beside the fireplace, and resting one elbow on the
shelf humped her shoulders in her favorite attitude and began to speak.
"Girls," she said, "this Junior-Senior business is going to be an awful
mess, and the result will be that somebody will be expelled or not
permitted to graduate. Students are going to take sides in the affair and
there will be no end of hard feelings. I for one don't care to play the
role of informer. So far we Winnebagos have kept entirely out of anything
of this kind and wish we could get along without having any connection
with this."

"But the teachers would never tell who told them," said Hinpoha.

"The teachers wouldn't," answered Katherine, "but Cora Burton would. And
then maybe someone would say that I had been in the thing to start with
and then grew afraid and told on the others. You know how those stories
grow. Stay out of it altogether, say I, and avoid publicity."

"But don't you think it's our duty to try and stop such horrid pranks?"
asked Hinpoha doubtfully.

"I certainly do," said Katherine, "and if we were the only ones who
suspected anything it would be different. But all the teachers know that
something is going to happen and they will be on the lookout. And the
Juniors know it also, and they will be on their guard. I doubt very much
if those mice ever get into the room, even if we keep silent."

And the Winnebagos, remembering Hinpoha's sad experience the year before,
decided that it was perhaps better after all to keep out of the affair
altogether.

"I thought you'd see it my way after you'd considered all sides," said
Katherine, reaching out her long fingers and taking three pieces of fudge
off the plate where it was cooling, "but that isn't what I wanted to talk
about tonight. It's Cora Burton that bothers me. She isn't a bad sort of
girl, and I can't see why she should want to get mixed up in that sort of
thing, especially when there's bound to be trouble later. If she were to
be seen with those boys Friday night it would go hard with her. I suppose
she thinks she's right in the swim being connected with a prank, because
she isn't very popular otherwise. The other girls that are in it aren't
ladylike and it's not much use getting after them, but Cora's different,
somehow. I wish something could be done about it." And she crunched a
piece of fudge between her teeth with violence.

"We might get up a show that night and each one bring a friend, and you
could invite Cora," suggested Sahwah. "Counter attraction, you know."

The suggestion was voted a good one and promptly acted upon. But Cora
declined Katherine's cordial invitation. "What's to be done now?" asked
Katherine of the hastily called meeting of the Winnebagos. "Our counter
attraction didn't work."

"Girls," said Gladys solemnly, "I believe it's our duty to keep Cora away
from that business somehow. If we were smart enough we'd find a way. I
don't believe we ought to let the matter drop and say if she wants to get
into trouble let her do it, it's none of our affair. It _is_ our affair,
because we're pledged to Give Service, and it would be doing Cora a great
service to keep her out of this. If she's weak and we're strong we must
hold her out of water. You remember what Dr. Harper said at the lecture
about saving people from themselves. Well, I think we ought to save Cora
from herself."

The phrase, "Save Cora from herself," sounded very fine to the ears of
the Winnebagos, and they decided that Cora must be saved from herself at
all costs. But how?

"I think I can manage it," said Katherine, who had been buried deep in
thought all the while the last discussion was going on. "It'll be quite
an undertaking, but the end justifies the means."

"Tell us," begged the girls.

"Why, it's this," said Katherine. "I shall tell Cora that I've changed my
mind and want to go with her Friday night and will meet her on the corner
of her street at eight o'clock. When I've met her I'll tell her that I
left my purse up here and ask her to come along till I get it. You know
she doesn't live very far from here. Once up here we'll keep her safely
all evening. Oh, I know that holding people against their will isn't one
of the rules of polite society, but in her case I think we're justified.
She'll thank us for it before very long. And we'll try to make it
pleasant for her. We'll give the show just as we intended and have a
spread and her captivity won't seem long."

As there seemed no other way out of the difficulty, Katherine's plan was
accepted.

"It's working fine," she confided to the Winnebagos the next day. "Cora
was tickled to pieces because I wanted to go with her. She agreed to meet
me on the corner, as I suggested, and we're both going to wear green
veils so we won't be recognized so easily. Hoop la!" and she did a double
shuffle with her toes turned in down the aisle of the empty class room
where the girls had gathered.

On Friday night the Winnebagos met early in the House of the Open Door.
Mrs. Evans, Gladys' mother, was acting as leader tonight in the absence
of Nyoda. She had been let into the secret about Cora and under the
circumstances thought that their action was right. Cora lived with an old
uncle, who was stone deaf and didn't care a rap what she did, so there
was no use talking to her folks about it. Several girl friends of the
Winnebagos were present, all having raptures over the decorations of the
Lodge, and watching with interest the waving curtain in the corner,
behind which Sahwah was making herself up as a Topsy for their
entertainment later on. Gladys was making sandwiches in another corner
and lamenting because the bread knife was broken half off, and was
accusing Sahwah of prying bricks apart with it, when stealthy footsteps
sounded on the walk below, together with the noise of the door being
pushed back quietly. Gladys heard it and started nervously. She was
beginning to feel rather embarrassed at the thought of meeting Cora
Burton, and wondered just how it would come out, anyway. She wished it
were safely over.

Katherine and her prisoner seemed a long time in reaching the foot of the
ladder. Did Cora suspect something, perhaps, and was refusing to mount?
Gladys strained her ears to listen and thought she heard a smothered
giggle from below, but she could not be sure. The next minute the lights
flashed below and the patent signal knock of the Sandwiches sounded on
the wall.

"Here come the boys!" cried Hinpoha, hastening to answer the signal with
a series of mystic thumps on the wall with the poker.

Then the Captain's voice sounded at the foot of the ladder. "How many of
you are up there?"

"Five," answered Hinpoha, "and three guests."

"Is Miss Kent there?"

"No."

"What are you doing?"

"We're going to have a show. Want to come up?"

"Well, maybe, later," answered the Captain. "Won't you come down a
minute? We've got something to show you." And again Gladys thought she
heard a smothered giggle from below stairs.

The girls trooped down the ladder, Sahwah running out with her face
blackened and her hair in tiny pigtails, to see what the excitement was
about. All seven of the Sandwiches stood there with sparkling eyes and
prenaturally solemn faces. On the floor stood a good-sized box.

"What's in the box?" asked Sahwah.

"Oh, nothing," answered the Captain, trying to speak indifferently.

"There is too, something," said Sahwah, looking critically at the express
tags fastened to it. "Oh, I know what is is," she cried, suddenly jumping
up and clapping her hands in glee. "Your uncle in Boston has sent you the
electric motor he promised you!"

The Captain tried to look indifferent and failed utterly. His lips would
twitch into a smile in spite of all he could do.

"Do open it and let us see it," said Hinpoha, and all the girls crowded
closely around.

"You may have the honor, Miss Brewster," said the Captain, bowing
formally to Sahwah. The nails had been drawn and all Sahwah had to do was
lift off the cover of the box, which she did with a great flourish. The
next moment the girls sprang back in dismay and scattered wildly. The box
was full of live mice, which jumped out and ran in all directions.
Screaming at the tops of their voices the girls fled toward the ladder
and crowded up as fast as they could go. Sahwah jumped for the swinging
rings, which hung from the ceiling of the barn, and dangled safely in
mid-air, making horrible faces at the Captain, at which he laughed
uproariously. Sahwah and the Captain were always playing tricks on each
other and this time she had to admit that he had scored heavily. So the
Captain jeered and Sahwah vowed vengeance and the other Sandwiches stood
around and laughed until their sides ached, for Sahwah, with blackened
face and Topsy braids, hanging in the rings and sputtering, was the
funniest sight imaginable.

"Joke's over now, boys," said the Captain, when the mice had run around
the barn for several minutes. "We've had enough of a good thing. Let's
catch them and put them back into the box."

The girls above sat around the ladder opening and watched the
proceedings.

"Wherever did you get so many mice, boys?" asked Mrs. Evans.

"We found them," said the Captain, "all boxed up, just like this, They
were right out in the middle of that field over there. We were on the way
over here and saw the box and looked in. When we saw what it was we
thought we could play a joke on the girls. So we brought them along.
Looks as though someone had fixed them that way for a joke. Probably were
going to send them by express. They were in an express box, although it
was not nailed shut."

The girls began to look at one another significantly. The same thought
came into all their minds at once. Were not these the mice that were to
attend the Junior party?

"The joke is on the Seniors, after all," said Hinpoha.

"What do you mean?" asked the boys. "The joke is on the Seniors?"

"Shall we tell them?" asked Hinpoha.

"I don't see any harm now," said Gladys. "The scheme has collapsed like a
pricked balloon."

And they told the Sandwiches what they knew about the plot of the Senior
boys to interrupt the Junior party.

"Wasn't such a bad idea to try to play a joke on you girls after all, was
it?" said the Captain. "Because if we hadn't done it we wouldn't have
nipped their little scheme in the bud. We'll play lots more jokes on
them, won't we, Slim? Don't you girls think you ought to invite us up to
supper to celebrate?"

"Not until the last mouse is back in the box," said Gladys firmly.

The boys worked hard to catch them again and the girls sat above and
cheered their efforts, and in the middle of it in came Katherine and her
companion, swathed in green veils. There was such an uproar in the barn
that Cora never noticed that Katherine locked the door and put the key in
her pocket. Cora gave a great start at the sight of the mice, which was
not all from fright, and the girls could not help enjoying the situation.
What must be her thoughts by this time? But Cora, obeying the natural
impulse of women at the sight of mice, fled up the ladder with Katherine.
If she thought it odd that the barn was full of girls and boys when she
had gained the impression that it was empty and dark, she made no sign,
but stood still with her veil over her face. With all those horrible
creatures running around the floor downstairs she made no move to escape.

"Won't you take off your things?" asked Katherine, beginning gently to
break the news to Cora that she was to stay for the evening. Without
demur Cora unfastened her coat and slid it off and then took off her hat
and veil. The girls stood as if turned to stone. The person who stood
before them was not Cora Burton. It was Miss Snively. _It was Miss
Snively!_

She looked around her with a sneering smile and a snapping light in her
eyes. "You may think it was a master stroke on your part to lure me here
and lock me in so I could not join the conspirators and thus find out who
they were," she said with biting emphasis. "But you shall pay dearly for
this, my young friends. I know who you all are--you needn't try to hide
behinds the others, Gladys Evans--and the information I shall be able to
give Mr. Jackson tonight is what he has been trying to find out for a
long time. Katherine Adams, you are the ringleader of this affair, as we
might have expected. I know all about the plan to put the mice into the
dance hall, and while the boys downstairs who are getting them ready are
not the ones I should have expected to be doing it, it is just like you
to get strange boys to do it for you, hoping to get away unsuspected. But
it didn't work, I am happy to say. You are very clever, Miss Adams, but
not clever enough. I overheard you asking Cora Burton to meet you on the
corner this evening. I took the liberty of being there first. I thought I
had deceived you perfectly, not knowing that you were bringing me right
into the mouse's nest, so to speak."

She paused for breath and looked around her with an expression of relish
at the consternation visible on the faces before her. For Katherine was
staring at her with startled, unbelieving eyes; Gladys was clutching her
mother's arm in a frightened manner; Hinpoha had sunk weakly down on the
bearskin bed, and Sahwah stood with her mouth open and the perspiration
running down her face in black streaks, and the others were dumb with
astonishment. The boys, not knowing just what was going on, but guessing
that something was the matter, stood by the ladder opening, silently
taking in the scene. The girls looked helplessly into each other's eyes.
Somebody must speak and explain. They all looked at Katherine.

"But we aren't mixed up in the House Party at all, Miss Snively," she
said earnestly. "We heard about it, and I found out that Cora Burton was
going to be in it and I tried to make her stay home and she refused, so
we girls decided we would take action to take her out of it by luring her
up here and keeping her until the thing was over. That's why I asked Cora
to meet me on the corner, and I really thought you were Cora all the
while. You imitated her squeaky voice to perfection."

As Katherine was telling her perfectly truthful story she had a dreadful
feeling that it didn't sound plausible at all. Under Miss Snively's cold
eye nothing seemed real.

"Likely story!" said Miss Snively sneeringly. "And how does it happen
that if you wanted to bring Cora out of temptation you should take her to
the place where the mice were being boxed up ready to be taken to the
party?" All the girls looked so disconcerted. Those dreadful mice did
complicate matters so! They would have given anything if Nyoda had been
there then.

The Captain was beginning to take in the situation. He came forward
frankly. "It's our fault about the mice," he said, looking Miss Snively
straight in the eye. "We found them in a field near here all boxed up and
thought it would be a good joke on the girls to bring them over here and
let them out. We don't know anything about your squabbles at Washington
High, except what little the girls here have told us; we're all from
Carnegie Mechanic. And we know the girls didn't have a hand in it,
because they were giving a show here to-night."

His story was backed up by all the other boys, and then Mrs. Evans got in
a word and declared that Katherine was telling the whole truth about
Cora, and Miss Snively was forced, however ungraciously, to admit that
she had been mistaken in her suspicions.

"If she'd been a man I'd have made her eat her words," declared Slim
wrathfully, after Miss Snively had departed from the scene.

Mrs. Evans and Gladys, with perfect courtesy, offered to drive her home
in their car, and for the present oil was poured on the troubled waters.

Katherine sat hunched gloomily before the fire and held-forth to the
Winnebagos. "I don't know whether the joke's on her or on us," she said
pessimistically; "but one thing I'm sure of, and that is, that never,
never, as long as I live, will I ever again try to save a girl from
herself."

And the Winnebagos wearily agreed with her.




                              CHAPTER VII
                      AN ADVENTURE IN PHILANTHROPY


Katherine became officially a member of the Winnebago Camp Fire Group at
the first Ceremonial after the circus, with the Fire Name of Iagoonah,
the Story Maker. The name itself was an accident and the manner of its
bestowing is cherished in the chronicles of the Winnebagos as one of the
group's best jokes. Just about the time Katherine was to be installed as
a Winnebago, word was received that the Chief Guardian of the city was
going to be present at the meeting and would take charge of the
Ceremonial. Katherine had chosen the name, "Prairie Dandelion," because
she came from the plains, and because her hair was so fly-away. During
the supper which preceded the Ceremonial meeting Katherine made such
funny speeches and told such outrageous yarns about her life in the West
that Nyoda said jestingly: "Your name ought to be Iagoo, the Marvellous
Story Teller." And the others began calling her Iagoo in fun. The Chief
Guardian heard them calling her Iagoo and supposed that was the Camp Fire
name she wished to take. So, when she was receiving Katherine into the
ranks, she said: "Your name is Iagoo, isn't it?"

Katherine, sobered and almost voiceless from the solemnity of the
occasion, mumbled half-inarticulately, "Iagoo? Nah!"

And before anyone knew what had happened she had been officially
installed as _Iagoonah_! The joke was so good that the name stuck, and
Katherine was known to the Winnebago Circle as Iagoonah to the end of the
chapter, although they did consent to change the interpretation to Story
Maker instead of Story Teller as being more dignified and not so
suggestive.

Katherine was one of the most enthusiastic Camp Fire Girls that ever
lived, and her inspirations led the girls into more activities and
adventures than they had ever dreamed of before. It was Katherine who
started the Philanthropic Idea. They had been talking about the different
things Camp Fire Girls could do together for the good of the community.

"Girls," said Katherine, standing in her favorite attitude beside the
fireplace, with her toes turned in and her elbow on the shelf, "I don't
believe we're doing all we ought. We're having a royal good time among
ourselves and learning no end of things to our own advantage, but what
are we doing for others? Nothing, that I can see."

"We gave a Thanksgiving basket to Katie, the laundress," said Hinpoha,
"and we collected a barrel of clothes for the Shimky's when their house
burned down, and we gave a benefit performance to pay little Jane
Goldman's expenses in the hospital, and we send toys and scrapbooks to
the Sunshine Nursery every Christmas."

"And I earned three dollars and gave it to the Red Cross," said Sahwah.
"Don't you call that doing something for other people? We haven't meant
to be selfish, I'm sure. By the way, Katherine, your elbow's in the
fudge."

Katherine shoved the dish away absently and returned to her subject.
"Yes," she admitted, "the Winnebagos have done a great deal that way, but
it's all been _giving_ something. We haven't _done_ anything. It's easy
enough to pack a basket and hand it to someone, and collect a lot of old
clothes from people who are anxious to get rid of them anyway, or pay the
bill for somebody else to do something. But I think we ought to do
something ourselves--give up our own time and put our own touch into it."

"What do you mean we should do?" asked Gladys, hunting through the dish
for a piece of fudge that had not been demolished by Katherine's elbow.

"Well, there's the Foreign Settlement," said Katherine. "I'm sure we
could find something to do there. It's a grand and noble thing to show
the foreigners how to live better." And she launched into such an
eloquent plea in behalf of the poor overburdened washerwomen who had to
neglect their babies while they went to work that the girls wiped their
eyes and declared it was a cruel world and things weren't fairly divided,
and surely they must do what they could to lighten the burdens of their
sisters in the Settlement.

"What will we do, and when will we do it?" asked Hinpoha, all on fire to
get the noble work started.

"Tomorrow's Saturday," answered Katherine. "We ought to go out into the
Settlement and see what's to be done. We'll make a survey, sort of, and
then we'll step in and see where we're needed most."

Nyoda, appealed to for advice, told them to go ahead. She liked the idea
of their trying to find out for themselves what needed a helping hand.
She could not go with them to the Settlement on Saturday morning, but it
was all right for them to go by themselves in daylight.

So, full of a generous desire to help somebody else, the Winnebagos
followed Katherine's lead toward the Settlement the next day. The
Settlement, as it was called, embraced some three or four square miles of
land adjacent to several large factories. In it dwelt some few thousand
Slovaks, Poles and Bohemians, packed like sardines in narrow quarters.
The Settlement had its own churches, stores, schools, theaters, dance
halls and amusement gardens, and looked more like an old world city than
a section of a great American Metropolis, with its queer houses and signs
in every language but English. The girls wandered up and down the narrow
dirty streets, filled with chickens and children, and tried to decide
what they should do first. They met the village baker, carrying a
washbasket full of 
